 On the same ground where 10 days ago Muttiah Muralitharan raised expectations that he might take all 10 England wickets in the third Test, Charlie Shreck produced an equally destructive bowling display yesterday to lift Nottinghamshire off the foot of the First Division. All 10 was never a possibility for the lanky fast-medium swing bowler, because Middlesex's opening batsman Ben Hutton was absent with shingles. But he did take the first eight before the last man, Chris Silverwood, lofted Graeme Swann's off-spin to long-on to complete an ignominious three-day defeat. Middlesex crumbled to 49 all out in only 27.4 overs, the lowest championship total since the advent of two divisions in 2000. They now lie only one point ahead of Nottinghamshire - Yorkshire are now bottom - and, on this evidence, even allowing for the England one-day call-ups for Jamie Dalrymple and Ed Joyce, relegation cannot be discounted. Only Nick Compton, with 11 from 56 balls, committed himself to bloody-minded resistance as the rest succumbed timidly to Shreck's outswingers. His eight for 31 was the best return by a Nottinghamshire bowler since Ken Smales did take all 10 in Stroud against Gloucestershire in 1956. To outdo the likes of Richard Hadlee was quite a feat for a bowler who now has 40 wickets in six championship matches since his recovery from a back stress fracture and a useful winter in New Zealand. Part of his treatment for a curved spine was an order to stand up straight. Shreck saved his comments until the final whistle of England v Trinidad & Tobago; Middlesex were also comfortably showered and changed in time for the second half. "The ball swung from ball one," he said. "We had joked at tea that we might have it all over in time for the football. Last year was disappointing for me. It felt like another team winning the title." Two months into the season and belatedly Nottinghamshire, the defending champions, have stirred. David Hussey's 2005 championship batting average of 68 had played a substantial part in a first title for 18 years. His form had been dismal until his 107 yesterday, encompassing 239 balls and 5½ hours, his eighth-wicket stand of 117 in 21 overs with Swann ensuring a first-innings lead of 82. Swann's flaying of Johan Louw caused the South African fast bowler to demolish his sawdust pile and his mood darkened when he dropped a return catch when Swann was on 46. Hussey was last out, giving Silverwood his fifth wicket. 