 The sweat of the ladies’ singles final was still drying on the honeyed skin of Maria Sharapova as a handful of reporters were ushered into a room the size of a broom cupboard to meet the new champion. There wasn’t even enough space to sit down. She was 17 years old and at the end of our allotted few minutes one of us asked how she planned to spend the prize money. Well, she said carefully, the thing she’d like most would be a Porsche Cayenne. She seemed to have given the matter some thought, even though she wasn’t yet old enough to drive unaccompanied on the roads around her Florida home. Within 10 years of that sunlit Wimbledon afternoon in 2004 she would become a brand ambassador for the German carmaker, appearing in its advertisements at the wheel of vehicles that were once considered the four-wheeled expression of masculinity. This week, however, Porsche joined the chorus of sponsors announcing that they were suspending or not renewing their association with the Russian. There is a certain irony in the fact that the announcement of the end of a prime example of high-end feminism came on International Women’s Day. At Wimbledon in 2004 the teenager gave another striking response to a question posed after her semi-final. She had spent the night before the match working on a sociology essay, she said, prompting someone to ask if it took her mind off the task ahead. “No,” she said without hesitation, “that’s not how it works. When I do one thing, I concentrate on that thing. When I do the other thing, I concentrate on that.” The ability to compartmentalise her obligations must have been of enormous benefit as she navigated her way through her career on and off the court. She was always punctual, always businesslike, always focused on the task at hand, whether it be trying to beat Serena Williams or promoting Swiss watches. Which makes it all the more surprising that she should have failed to open any of the five official emails informing her that the heart medicine called meldonium – or mildronate, as she knew it – had been placed on the athletes’ banned list. The appeal that made Sharapova the best-paid woman in world sport for 11 years in a row has always been based on paradoxes – starting with the contrast between that imperious, sometimes disdainful demeanour and a glorious smile that seems to come as naturally at unguarded moments as it does during a fashion shoot. To love her, you had to ignore her habit, before receiving serve, that quite blatantly forced her opponent to wait while she stood in the back court, facing in the opposite direction, reversing the normal protocol by making the point run to the receiver’s rhythm. Or the way she responded to moments of difficulty in a match by raising the volume on the prolonged scream emitted after each of her raking ground strokes, a tactic surely aimed – whatever she might have claimed – at disrupting her opponent’s concentration. There was also the invention of the Sugarpova. Surely it must say something about a woman clearly proud of her own carefully maintained body that she would exploit her fame to sell sweets to children in a world struggling to control obesity among a generation hooked on sugar. Her own drug was unknown to most of us until this week. She took meldonium for 10 years, allegedly on prescription from her family doctor to treat a variety of ailments. But if there is one thing we know about athletes it is that even the non-cheats among them will explore any potential marginal gain in the effort to acquire an edge. Bradley Wiggins gave an inadvertent glimpse into that mindset this week. Answering a question about Sharapova, he replied that he felt sorry for her but that there was no excuse for ignorance of the annual updates to the list of prohibited medications. Then he added: “British Cycling are really on the ball – Richard Freeman, the doctor – in terms of things that have been changed, saying: ‘Please don’t take this any more.’” He was telling us that Britain’s top cyclists, famous for the zero-tolerance approach to doping imposed by their managers, are no strangers to substances that become banned. This might be thought to put them in a bracket with all those Russian skaters, ski jumpers and goodness knows who else who have been paying around £5 for a packet of 40 tablets of meldonium imported from Latvia for the last few years. Sharapova’s smoothly staged press conference raised more questions than it answered. The elaborate medical explanation was quickly undermined by expert testimony, making it seem an attempted cover-up, and that the evasion was creating far worse problems than a simple admission that she had taken a legal substance because it offered performance benefits. Even her detractors would admit that Sharapova brought beauty and drama to the court. Her five grand slam wins were evidence that she mounted a consistent and often lonely challenge to the long dominance of the Williams sisters. It was excruciating to watch her struggle through her shoulder problems in her early 20s, two major operations meaning that in 2009 she turned up at Wimbledon barely able to summon the pat-a-cake serve of a novice on a public court. She looked then as though she might be finished. But her enormous strength of will, and quite possibly the unadvertised benefits of meldonium, brought her through that crisis and enabled her to contend once again for the biggest titles, even if Serena’s own drive to overcome physical problems meant that the Russian would for ever be second best. Well, she is finished now. Perhaps her lawyers will succeed in ensuring that her sentence is a light one and that she can return to competition still close to her peak. Maybe her admirers in high places will even ensure that she takes her place in Russia’s Olympic squad. No doubt over the coming years she will continue adding to her fortune. But our view of her will never be quite the same. She is not a Lance Armstrong or a Marion Jones. She did nothing technically illegal until those last couple of months. No one will be erasing her name from the honours boards and there will be no asterisk against her name in the record books. But her statement this week, and the doubts it raised, ensured that wherever she goes her aura will bear a permanent stain, like a thin layer of pollution hanging above the horizon in an otherwise clear blue sky. 