 Tim Henman's hopes of beginning the grass-court season with a high-profile victory over Andre Agassi in the Stella Artois Championships today have been hampered by a recurrence of his long-standing back injury. But although he admits encountering some problems in his transition from clay to grass at Queen's Club this week, he remains cautiously optimistic about his immediate chances of success. The 31-year-old Briton's plunge down the rankings this year left him unseeded and handed him one of the toughest possible first-round ties against Agassi, who returns to action after three months out. Henman, three times a runner-up in the event, said: "The grass has not been as easy on my back as I thought it would be and I have taken longer to adjust physically. It was better today but on Friday and yesterday it wasn't good at all. It is slightly disconcerting that my back has been a bit sore but I hope I can put that down to the change in surfaces. I feel like I know how to manage that and hopefully it won't cause any problems." He admits he can learn a lot from the evergreen 36-year-old Agassi, who ruled himself out of the entire clay-court campaign in order to get in prime physical shape for the grass season and beyond. "The way Andre has managed his game and his health is a great example and the results he has had have been incredible. Those are always good examples you can take a lot of confidence from." Remarkably, despite their respective grass-court pedigrees, Henman and Agassi have never previously met on the surface and in fact have only played three times in total, Agassi winning their latest meeting in Florida in 2000. His back problem permitting, Henman remains confident of mounting another successful grass-court challenge because he feels some significant recent improvements have not been reflected in results. "I would say the trend over the last few months has been positive because I have been feeling healthy and playing better and better, so that certainly brings confidence. I am not seeded but I don't think that really has much impact. I think with my record and my confidence of playing at home a lot of players would prefer not to be playing me, too." With Andy Murray not playing his first-round match against the Serb Janko Tipsarevic until tomorrow, home attention turns to the current domestic No1 Greg Rusedski, who plays the French qualifier Antony Dupuis. Rusedski, who enjoyed some rare success during the clay-court season in reaching the last 16 in Rome, will fancy his chances against Dupuis, whom he has beaten in both their previous meetings on grass. Martin Lee will play his first ATP Tour match for three years after battling through three rounds of qualifying. He faces the Spaniard Fernando Vicente. Lee, 28, was ranked as high as 94th in the world before a series of crippling injuries almost forced him to retire from the sport. The American Mardy Fish, battling back up the rankings after wrist surgery last year, will also be at Queen's after winning the first grass-court title of the season, beating the South African top seed Wesley Moodie 6-2, 7-6 in the final of the Surbiton Trophy. 