 Britain's expectations of success in the Davis Cup have been postponed indefinitely after Tim Henman yesterday announced his retirement from the competition. The 30-year-old has blamed increasing complaints from his body and decided to trim his schedule accordingly; why he should do so now, a fortnight into a new season, is more mysterious. "After much deliberation I'm confident that this offers me the best opportunity to fulfil some unachieved goals I have left in the game," said Henman on his website. Flattering words from Roger Federer and forward-looking ones from his coach, Paul Annacone, may have contributed to the decision. Federer suggested this week that Henman was still capable of winning a grand slam title and Annacone recently advised it was unwise for him to allow even two or three days to pass without exercise. Henman took only a couple of weeks' break during the off season but afterwards found his back seizing up. It was a new experience and one he was only partly prepared to attribute to age. "I'm not the most flexible person," he said. Fate dealt some other hard cards. Britain never once won a World Group tie during Henman's 11-year Davis Cup career. In September a 3-2 defeat by Austria in a qualifying play-off consigned Britain to the Europe/Africa zone and Henman to the knowledge that it would be well into his 32nd year before something worthwhile could be achieved. There followed the back-aching prospect of an ultra-long haul flight from Israel, where Britain play their next match on March 4-6, to the Masters Series at Indian Wells in California staright afterwards, where Henman has a finalist's points to defend. It has not helped that Henman has almost always been required to play all three rubbers in Davis Cup matches. Britain's failure to find a doubles specialist to succeed Neil Broad, Henman's fellow Olympic silver medallist, has been costly. Whether Greg Rusedski will continue with what now looks a near hopeless British cause is open to question and even in a best-case scenario he is unlikely to be around beyond this year. Henman's retirement is likely to hasten a transitional period while the next generation scramble to gain the necessary experience to fill the void. The 17-year-old reigning US Open junior champion Andrew Murray - who has not yet played a senior Davis Cup match - and the world No191 Alex Bogdanovic are the most obvious candidates to figure against Israel. The Lawn Tennis Association's performance director David Felgate said he found Henman's decision "perfectly understandable". Felgate told the Press Association: "Tim has made his decision after many years of tremendous performances for the Davis Cup team. "He has his reasons and we must accept them and look forward to the future with the next generation of players." The British captain Jeremy Bates said: "Tim has quite simply had a phenomenal Davis Cup career and it has been an absolute privilege to have captained the team with him in it." Henman had always enjoyed the drum-banging and flag-waving of the Davis Cup, so much so that he won 36 out of 50 matches. "I would still like to make myself available in the hope of trying to help British players develop their full potential," Henman said. For a long while British tennis has been talking about preparing for life after him; now it will have to get started. For Henman life went on yesterday with a 6-4, 6-2 defeat by Federer in the Kooyong Exhibition event as both warmed up for Monday's Australian Open. Henman put on just enough flicks and tricks to please the well-to-do Melburnians in the steep bleachers and even though soundly beaten the British No1 earned his day's appearance fee by showboating his shots and generally hamming it up for the crowd. 