 As a way of warming up for Wimbledon, Roger Federer enjoys the low-key atmosphere of the Gerry Weber Open but his visit to this sleepy northern German town this year has more of the feel of rehabilitation than warm-up. In that context, the world No1's 6-4, 6-4 win over Marcos Baghdatis yesterday was much more satisfying than impressive. On its own, it bore few hallmarks of the player expected to win the Wimbledon title in 22 days' time, but as a progression after the humbling he suffered at the hands of Rafael Nadal in Paris on Sunday it will have its uses. Federer described it as a "solid match", and apart from having to bounce back from 0-40 in the sixth game of the second set just after breaking the Cypriot he was never seriously threatened on his serve. He was happy to trade sliced backhands from the baseline, but also showed a willingness to get to the net earlier than he usually does, and volleyed impressively in the 73-minute match. Of greater importance, his forehand, which deserted him in his 6-1, 6-3, 6-0 drubbing by Nadal in Paris, seldom let him down and showed some signs of a recovered effectiveness. "It's a change on grass," Federer said of his biggest weapon. "The ball comes in much quicker and flatter, so you have to hit through it in a different way. I was a little too careful on my forehand in the first game and he hit a good pass, but that comes with time, and all these things should only get better from here." That may be ominous from a man who has now won his past 57 matches on grass. Doubts still remain about both his confidence and his state of health after he suffered a mild bout of glandular fever in January, but he is now into the semi-finals without having dropped a set. Today Federer faces the last man to beat him in Halle, Nicolas Kiefer. The 30-year-old German has hit good form this week, but is not the player who toppled Federer in the 2002 semi-finals, more the player who lost 6-1, 6-3 when Federer won his first title here five years ago. Kiefer yesterday needed just four games to beat the in-form Michaël Llodra. The Frenchman trailed 0-4 when he retired citing a trapped nerve in his neck, which he hopes will have recovered in time for him to play the Nottingham Open next week. Federer's task today might be easier than it would have been had he faced the big-serving left-hander Llodra, who likes to keep the points short. Even if Kiefer loses, it will still have been a good week for Germany after the country's tennis community felt it was at rock bottom after a dismal French Open. In the bottom half of the draw, Germany's top-ranked player, Philipp Kohlschreiber, a 6-4, 7-6 winner over Robin Soderling, faces the world No7 James Blake, who needed eight match points to beat the German wildcard Andreas Beck 7-6, 7-6. As for Baghdatis, asked what he expected from Wimbledon, he replied: "To win it." The guy who beat him might be forgiven having the same expectation. 