 The world No1 Rafael Nadal progressed to the semi-finals of the BNP Paribas Open today with a 6-2, 6-4 victory over Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina. Nadal took one hour 49 minutes to defeat Del Potro and maintained his record of never having dropped a set against the Argentinian. Nadal, who won at Indian Wells in 2007, will next meet Andy Roddick in the last four after the American defeated Novak Djokovic earlier in the day. Nadal came into the match on the back of a lengthy battle with David Nalbandian on Wednesday where he eventually came out on top 3-6, 7-6 (7/5), 6-0. He faced less of a challenge today as he broke serve in the third game of the opening set before closing out the remaining games to win 6-2. Nadal started the second set as he had finished the first and broke serve in the second game and though Del Potro battled back to take the next game before having advantage in the fourth, Nadal came through and then won the next three games for a 5-1 lead. Del Potro denied Nadal the chance to serve out the match in the eighth game but that simply delayed the inevitable as the Spaniard closed out the victory. Roddick, meanwhile, was in fine form as he despatched Djokovic 6-3, 6-3. The American has enjoyed an excellent year so far, winning the title in Memphis and beating Djokovic on his way to the semi-finals of the Australian Open. The world No3 retired on that occasion suffering from the effects of the Melbourne heat but he was back on form today. He broke in Djokovic's opening service game then again to secure the first set. Djokovic had a chance at the start of the second set but Roddick kept his cool and the Serbian cracked first, with Roddick rattling off four games in a row to seal victory. In the women's event, defending champion Ana Ivanovic had little difficulty defeating Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-2, 6-3 to set-up a final meeting with the in-form Vera Zvonereva. The 21-year-old Serb dominated her teenage opponent to secure the win in one hour 15 minutes. Zvonareva booked her place in the final with a 6-3, 6-3 victory over Victoria Azarenka. 