 The abrupt and startling retirement of Belgium's Justine Henin, aged just 25 and the French Open champion for the past three years, did not come as a major surprise to Maria Sharapova, who has taken over from Henin as the world's No1 and is the top seed in Paris, the only major she has yet to win. "If I'm 25 and I have won seven slams I'd call it quits as well," said the reigning Australian Open champion, a statement that must have severely alarmed her fans, sponsors and the WTA Tour. Sharapova was 21 last month, yet reckons that 50% of her opponents these days are younger, and consequently the pressure to stay at the top increases month by month. This pressure was obvious today in her first-round match against fellow Russian Evgeniya Rodina, a 19-year-old making her slam main draw debut. A combination of fine play by Rodina, and a blustery wind, which Sharapova hates, saw the top seed scrape home 6-1, 3-6, 8-6. "Nothing really worked after the first set," said Sharapova, who served 17 double faults. In Sharapova, with her three slams and photogenic looks, women's tennis has, in terms of the market men at least, the perfect model. Nothing would please them more than to see a repeat in Paris of the Australian Open final, where Sharapova defeated the equally glamorous Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, the current No2 - blonde versus brunette, with everyone a winner. But few scenarios can ever be taken for granted in the women's game which has, deservedly, achieved prize money parity with the men at all four majors, Wimbledon having finally seen the light last year, yet continues to overly promote itself in terms of glamour rather than achievement. The days of the multi-slam singles champions such as Margaret Court (24), Steffi Graf (22), Martina Navratilova (18), Chris Evert (18) and Billie Jean King (12), may now be over. The current leader is Serena Williams on eight and she will be 27 years old in September. Serena and her older sister Venus, who has won six slams, have cried wolf far too often over retirement for anybody to be surprised whether they stick or twist, and Sharapova's warning about possibly giving up inside the next four years may have been a mild dig at the two Americans. Whatever happens it might be argued that there is something fundamentally wrong with the women's game if it leads to premature retirement through burn-out, as appears to have happened to Henin, and before her Kim Clijsters and Martina Hingis. "Tennis starts at a very young age and you're basically committing every day of your life to tennis," said Sharapova, who last year had her best run at the French Open, reaching the last four before losing to Ivanavic, the runner-up to Henin. "No matter what time you have off, you're always thinking about how it is going to affect your training and performance. It's tough to do what we do day in and day out." With the Belgian gone, Sharapova will fancy her chances, even if her movement on clay remains suspect - a 'cow on ice' was how she once described herself - while the power of her grounds strokes are partially negated. "It takes a lot of patience, but even though it's not my best surface, I grew up on it with the majority of my junior days spent on clay," she said. "For the first few days on clay, it's so different. I'm like 'whoa'. But after a while it's fine." One thing is for sure, all the women have felt a huge clay weight lifted off their shoulders by Henin's sudden departure, for she had won the title four times in the last five years. "Last year I basically played without a shoulder and I got to the semi-finals," said Sharapova, who demonstrated at this year's Australian Open that when she is fully fit she is all but unstoppable on fast surfaces. Clay is the great leveller, and on it the diminutive Henin was head and shoulders the best. Now, perhaps, is the time for Sharapova to step up, though against Rodina she was far from convincing. 