 Tim Henman says he will "hit the ground running" in 2006. His results suggest at the moment he is managing no more than a canter. For the second successive week Henman reckoned he was excited by his performance, and for the second successive week he lost to Radek Stepanek in a match that leaves him without a win over a top-20 player for seven months. Worse still, Henman's 6-4, 1-6, 6-3 defeat in the second round of the Masters Series yesterday came against an opponent to whom he had never lost before this, his worst year. No matter how much Henman claims that his back is better, that he is enjoying playing for the first time in 15 months, that he lacks only match practice, and that he has the basis for a fuller off-season's work than ever before, it is a crisis. "I'd love to be winning more matches. But in the context of the year it doesn't make any difference," Henman said, sounding remarkably plausible. "Because I'm going to stop after Paris and have a break and then really crack on." But the training would be twice as easy with the boost of a decent result or two. Again there were times when it seemed Henman would get one yesterday. He played many fine points, came to the net at unexpected moments, hit inside-out forehands and mixed it up like a bag of liquorice all-sorts. "To be honest I don't like his game," admitted Stepanek, who claimed he nearly didn't play after needing 2½ hours' treatment on a stiff neck. But when it mattered most, in the last couple of games, it was the Czech who served the more solidly. Rafael Nadal is competing here despite a knee injury that caused him to miss Vienna last week. The Spaniard played with thin black tapes around both knees while struggling to beat Victor Hanescu of Romania 7-6, 6-3. Every move was watched by the tournament director Manuel Santana, the former Wimbledon champion. After his victory the French Open champion said he would play at the Queen's tournament for the next two years to prepare for Wimbledon. Greg Rusedski's surprising statement that his conqueror Ivo Karlovic was "at altitude the worst draw in the tournament" and would trouble Andy Roddick appeared less fanciful when the 6ft 10in Croatian qualifier beat the second-seeded American 3-6, 7-6, 7-6. 