 Ana Ivanovic, the reigning French Open champion and world No 1, who had saved two match points in her previous match against France's Nathalie Dechy, failed to pull herself out of an obvious post-Roland Garros slump and lost in the third round against Zheng Jie of China, ranked No133 in the world, and essentially a doubles specialist who had missed most of last year with a serious ankle injury.  Ivanovic had pulled out of the pre-Wimbledon Eastbourne tournament more through mental fatigue than anything, and it became obvious against Dechy on Wednesday that her mind was simply not on the grass. Winning the French Open, her first slam title, had taken its toll, and try as she might she simply could not raise her game. The 20-year-old Serb had spoken freely about her fighting spirit against Dechy, but there was simply nothing left in the tank yesterday. By beating Ivanovic, Zheng Jie became the lowest-ranked player to defeat the women's world No1 in a slam, the previous being Australia's 16-year-old qualifier Jelena Dokic, ranked No129, who defeated Switzerland's Martina Hingis in the first round in 1999.  Ivanovic's loss followed that of world No2 and former champion Maria Sharapova on Thursday, with the chances of a third all-Williams Wimbledon final looking all the more probable, Serena having defeated Venus in 2002 and 2003. A delighted Zheng said: "I just say thank you to Wimbledon for giving me a wild card and I can play with her."  Lleyton Hewitt still talks as though he can win Wimbledon. Does he play as though he can? Possibly not, though he did appear to be playing well enough yesterday to give what he called "his good old mate" a run on Monday. By that he was referring to Roger Federer, a fourth-round meeting with whom he earned with a 6-1, 6-3, 7-6 third-round win over Simone Bolelli, a young and rising top-50 player from Italy. "I made a really good start, played aggressive, played exactly how I wanted to play, and executed everything that I stated in the game plan," said Hewitt, leaving journalists unsure whether to be more dazzled by how overwhelming he was or by the mystery of the plan. In fact he seemed to be displaying a game remarkably similar to that which he has used for much of the past decade - of solid containment, patient probing for the hint of an opening and accumulated pressure, either with faded hits down each line or sudden changes of pace with his forehand cross-court drive. But it suddenly became a different match in the third set, when Bolelli began to keep more balls in court. When he did he was bound to be dangerous, for his first serve is fierce and his drives from both wings were heavy enough to bully Hewitt and give us an inkling of how long the Aussie's fitness could sustain that famously deceptive scamper. Bolelli saved a match point at 4-5 with a first service winner, won a magnificent rally to level at 5-5 and played his best game to reach 6-6 only to make a mess of the tie-break. Hewitt closed it out with a fine first-service winner and then an ace, which triggered his trademark "come on", though this actually was no longer necessary, at least not for another three days. Against Federer, however, that and more will be needed. Moreover Hewitt admits to having struggled with injuries, as he has quite stoically for two or three years, alluding to them yesterday while refusing to identify what they were. "Why not?" he was asked. "Because it shows weakness," he said. But there was no hiding that this is no longer the Hewitt of 2002, even when he talked as if it was. 