 Roger Federer is so serene that at times he appears only half-awake but he might feel a jolt of anxiety when he peers across at his opponent on Centre Court today. Facing him will be Lleyton Hewitt, the last man to win Wimbledon before him and the only other man in the draw to have won here. That is not the only reminder that he can be beaten at Wimbledon. The same year that Hewitt secured his solitary title at the All England Club Federer suffered a first-round defeat by the Croatian Mario Ancic, his last defeat in SW 19. And Ancic could well lie in wait for the winner of Federer v Hewitt. The world No 1 had yet to win a grand slam title in 2002 but, having beaten the then champion, Pete Sampras, 12 months earlier, he was the clear favourite. Ancic was only 18 and had entered the tournament via the qualifiers but expectations counted for nothing on June 25 and Ancic won in straight sets, 6-3, 7-6, 6-3. "It's unbelievable to think Roger has not lost here since I beat him all those years ago," Ancic said. "I remember he wasn't playing well at the time, he had done quite badly at the French Open that year and there was a question mark over his overall form. But he was still a very good player; anyone who saw him beat Sampras the year before could see that." Prior to their Centre Court encounter Ancic, then ranked No 154, watched hours of Federer's matches on video hoping to spot weaknesses in his game. In particular he studied footage of Federer's straight- sets defeat by Hicham Arazi at Roland Garros the previous month. "That match proved to me that Roger was not at the top of his game and because of that my confidence went up," added Ancic. "I started well and, as happened against Arazi, Roger started making mistakes, he was missing shots and giving me opportunities that now you could only dream of getting against him." Ancic broke twice to take the first set before destroying Federer 7-2 in the second tie-break. "Everything I wanted to hit was going in," he added. "I would say that definitely was my best match ever." The Croatian believes only an off-form Federer can now be beaten on grass. "He is now the complete player, that is why he has been the world No 1 for so long," he said. "He is almost invincible on grass, as he has shown again this year. He is definitely favourite to win the title again." Ancic's victory over Federer saw his career take off. He ended the year as the youngest player in the ATP top 100 and reached the quarter-final of the French Open and Wimbledon in 2006. The last 12 months have, however, been difficult for the world No43. He contracted glandular fever at the start of 2007 and hardly played for 12 months. He returned to action this year and after a third-round exit at the French Open, faces a fourth-round meeting with the No 22 seed Fernando Verdasco this afternoon. After that he could face Federer again. "Roger has beaten me every time we have played since I won against him here but those matches were not on grass," said Ancic. "It would be difficult for me to defeat him but I would like to try. I did it once. Who knows, I could do it again." Federer must first defeat Hewitt, who has shown glimpses of the character and class that saw him triumph in 2002. "I'm looking forward to challenging myself at the highest level," said the 27-year-old. "I'll get some opportunities, not a lot obviously because of the calibre of player he is, but there'll be some half chances and I know I'll have to take them." Ancic can certainly testify to that. 