 John McEnroe has never minced his words, either as a player or now as a BBC television commentator. So mention Andy Murray to him and the New Yorker's combative eyes gleam and shift: "It's time for him to step it up." McEnroe, seven times a grand slam champion, three of the titles coming at Wimbledon, does not waste time making pro-British, mealy-mouthed comparisons between Murray and Serbia's world No3 Novak Djokovic, one week younger than the 21-year-old Scot but already the winner of a major. "Djokovic is one of the most talented players I've seen in a long while, and it's no good comparing Andy with a guy who could be the No1 in the world this year. "There's a talent gap. I'd like to know more about exactly what Andy is doing. He seems stronger and fitter so he's made headway, but at the same time it seems that there is more progress to be made. I'd like to see how hard he works. That would be my first question," said McEnroe, who would have been less than impressed with Murray's decision to pull out of his Queen's quarter-final against Andy Roddick last Friday with a sore thumb. McEnroe, like many other critics, including Murray's former coach, Brad Gilbert, believes that the British player's best chance of winning a slam is on the grass. "He's got an advantage at Wimbledon because there's not a lot of guys who feel comfortable at Wimbledon, so he's one of this handful who could get in the mix. But there is a gap."  It is a word that keeps cropping up. "His serve is harder now. I'd like to say the easy solution would be for him to get himself in even better shape. Look at these top three guys - [Roger] Federer, Rafa Nadal and Djokovic. If you want to compete with them you're going to have to work your you-know-what off. It's unbelievable how good a shape these guys are in." McEnroe saw Murray lose his French Open third-round match against Spain's Nicolás Almagro and was not exactly impressed: "He did some things where it looked like, at the end, he wasn't quite ready to get that win ... to step up and be with those top clay-court guys. He's got some good feel but he doesn't really attack that much. There's a gap." McEnroe has an open mind regarding Team Murray, the group he has surrounded himself with since his split from Gilbert last year, but does have reservations. "When he brought in Alex Corretja in for the clay, from what I hear there wasn't a whole lot of a chance for Alex to buckle down and get to be a coach. It reminded me a little bit of when I was asked to do it a few times with Boris Becker. The guy did exactly what he was going to do anyway. Changed absolutely nothing. When push came to shove, he wasn't willing to do anything." McEnroe was not directly suggesting that Murray, a strong-willed individual, had done the same, but the American's drift was clear enough. McEnroe had no problems with Murray's post French Open assertion that he could win the Wimbledon title this year. "I think that it's good he's saying it. But it's going to be a tall order, to put it mildly. He should certainly go in with that attitude, and it's a great opportunity to move up, to be in the mix. There are only a handful of guys who have this clear vision of what they want to do on grass." As for Murray's attitude on court, the rages and the whinges, McEnroe remains suspect. "I could do it, and something good may have come from it for me. But there is that line where it becomes the law of diminishing returns and some people go downhill. Others, it actually inspires them. But you've got to know yourself, ultimately. I think that it can help him at the right moments, but I've also seen it when it hurt him. Instead of digging in, he's sort of faded." As for who will be the men's Wimbledon champion this year, McEnroe sees no need to look beyond the big three, with a slight leaning this time towards Nadal, the winner of the Artois title last Sunday. "In the first year [2006] that he got to the final, I was really surprised at how much he stepped it up against Andre Agassi in the third round. It was then that I started to realise how good he really was, even on grass." 