 Tennis Andre Agassi's trademark showmanship will not find a more appreciative audience than this week in Los Angeles as the 35-year-old makes his first competitive appearance in two months. Played at the UCLA campus, a short drive from Hollywood, the Mercedes-Benz Cup will serve as a delayed start to the US icon's summer season, postponed for a week when he withdrew from Indianapolis. There is nothing certain about this return for Agassi, who is suffering with a chronic sciatic nerve problem. He was last sighted in Paris on May 24 after a first-round defeat, explaining the intricacies of a pain-killing injection that he took in February and whose efficiency suddenly expired as he held a two-sets-to-love lead over Jarkko Nieminen at Roland Garros. "It had great results for me for a few months. It gradually got worse at a slow rate and then started picking up." The injection varies in the amount of time it lasts. Agassi says for him it was about two to three months.  That kind of nagging doubt will surely be tucked away in his mind as he begins against a qualifier. If the summer goes according to plan, the eight-times grand slam champion will play through the hardcourt campaign and into the US Open which starts on August 29. The three-times LA champion is said to have taken another injection late last week and will be hoping that the procedure can ensure a pain-free few months on court. A winner of 59 ATP career singles titles, including 14 in the past four years, he earned his last in August in Cincinnati. Despite playing only 11 events in 2005, including the first-round Davis Cup defeat to Croatia, Agassi retains the No6 ranking, with a 22-9 season record. The veteran was boosted into the top seeding when Andy Roddick, still feeling the impact of his second Wimbledon thrashing by Roger Federer, withdrew citing a sore right knee. In Indianapolis, Greg Rusedski ran out of gas in his semi-final, losing 6-4, 6-4 to Taylor Dent, who was then beaten by Robbie Ginepri in the final. 