 Greg Rusedski finally won a match on clay on the ATP Tour after four years to set up a meeting tomorrow with Tim Henman which will be the their first-ever confrontation on this surface.  Britain's top two came smoothly through yesterday against German wild cards in this Master Series event.  In another first, Rusedski played part of his match wearing track-suit bottoms. What is more, in his opinion, there was a connection between that and victory.  Rusedski overcame Philipp Petzschner and had to contend with a court without pace, the noise of schoolboys in a nearby alleyway and, most of all, an aggravating rain delay after the first game of the final set.  But Rusedski made that delay work in his favour. "I got into the locker room and had a shower, and he didn't. He came out and warmed up pretty loosey-goosey and I knew if I got on top of him right from the start I had a chance," said Rusedski after his 7-6, 3-6, 6-3 win.  "We warmed up but then we stopped. So I kept my tracksuit bottoms on and he didn't. I was warm and he was still cool. And I broke to love and played a good game to hold, and that was the key to the match. I had set the tone by the way I came out and that always helps against an inexperienced player."  So Rusedski suggested, even though he sometimes looked a little creaky in the single- degree temperatures, that being in his 32nd year has its advantages. Whether they ex tend to helping take revenge against Henman is another matter.  Henman was in good nick while beating another German wild card, Lars Bürgsmuller, 6-3, 6-4 and no matter how fired up Rusedski may be by the memory of missing two match points in their splendid encounter in Dubai, the British No1 looks clearly the better man on the brick dust.  Roger Federer returned to the Tour after suffering inflamed feet and a defeat to the 18-year-old Richard Gasquet three weeks ago. The world No1 beat Fernando Verdasco, Andy Roddick's conqueror last week, 6-4, 6-3, and snatching one perfectly timed break at the end of each set.  "I was quite worried going into today's match," Federer said after his 36th win in 38 matches this year. If so, you feel sorry for opponents when he is confident again.  Federer's title defence should be significantly less difficult for the withdrawal of Rafael Nadal, another troublesome 18-year-old and the sensational winner of back-to-back Masters Series events. Nadal has decided this week to let a blistered finger heal before the French Open in a fortnight. 