 Andy Murray will face the Argentinian Sergio Roitman in the first round of the US Open which starts in New York on Monday. The 21-year-old is seeded sixth for the tournament and he will be confident of progressing against an opponent placed 102 in the world rankings despite a disappointing Olympic Games. It will be the first time the pair have met and the draw has been kind to the British No1, whose biggest rival in his quarter of the draw is the fourth seed David Ferrer. Rafael Nadal, who became the new world No1 this week after his victory in Beijing, will meet a qualifier in the first round as he seeks his third grand slam of the season following his victories in the French Open and Wimbledon. It will also be the first event since Nadal replaced Roger Federer at the top of the ATP rankings on Monday. The 22-year-old Spaniard is not due to face a seeded player until the fourth round, where the big-hitting 13th seed Ivo Karlovic could lay in wait, while the Argentinian David Nalbandian, seeded seven, is another potential quarter-final opponent. Federer, the No2 seed, begins his quest to win a fifth successive title at Flushing Meadows against Maximo Gonzalez, the world No114 from Argentina. Third-seeded Novak Djokovic, who won this year's Australian Open, faces France's Arnaud Clement in the first round. In the women's draw, Serena and Venus Williams, who met in this summer's Wimbledon final, are on course to meet again in the quarter-finals. Serena will begin against Ukrainian Kateryna Bondarenko while Venus has a tougher draw against Australia's Samantha Stosur. The world No1 Ana Ivanovic, who won the French Open but disappointed at Wimbledon, will begin her search for a first US Open title with a match against Vera Dushevina of Russia. Ivanovic's fellow Serbian and second seed Jelena Jankovic will begin with a match against Coco Vandewghe. The former world No1 Amélie Mauresmo, is finding some form before New York. The Frenchwoman beat the fifth seed Patty Schnyder 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 to reach the quarter-finals at the WTA event in New Haven. Mauresmo has dropped to No33 in the world rankings but she said: "Even if I had lost I think I would have been pretty satisfied with my performance." It will be hard to look beyond the Williams sisters, though at Flushing Meadows in the next fortnight. 