 John Lloyd told me back in San Jose that I was going to be in the team. We were sitting down in the players' lounge getting some food and waiting for Andy to go on because he was playing a night match. John told me about how the team were going to stay at The Belfry and would be getting Hugo Boss suits for the dinner and stuff, and then he said, out of the blue, "By the way, you're in the team." And then he carried on talking. It was pretty random, I'll give him that. I was totally surprised and didn't really take in any more of the conversation at all. I guess Andy knew, but he let John tell me. I didn't actually tell my mum and dad for a while. In fact I didn't officially tell them, they heard through other people. I don't know why - probably because I was away in the States and it just didn't happen that way. We all got together, except Andy, last Thursday at Roehampton for the opening of the National Tennis Centre. I got to speak to the Queen. You introduce yourself and then she asks you some questions - nothing unbelievably exciting but it's good to say you've met the Queen. There has been a great rapport in the camp. We've played a bit of golf, went to watch Fulham v Portsmouth last Saturday - all good for team bonding - although Flossie [John Lloyd] picked the match and he got a lot of abuse for it. It wasn't the best. Andy and me didn't ever talk about playing together in the Davis Cup when we were kids but we watched a lot of the matches on TV and actually went to some of the ties. But it was obviously something we both wanted to do. He's done a bit more than me, but hopefully if I get the results I'll be able to play in a lot more ties. The stat is that the winners of the doubles match wins 80% of Davis Cup ties, four in five. So it's obviously important. I'm sure I'll be nervous at the start of the match - it's only natural. It would be a bad thing if I weren't. One of my goals was to establish myself in the Davis Cup team. I knew we needed a doubles player to take the pressure off the others. I got some results and I thought I should be in the team after winning titles in Dallas, San Jose and Memphis. Everybody says Davis Cup is different from everything else. It is. But at the end of the day it's still a doubles match for me and I've been playing at the highest level for the last few months. I'm confident in my own ability. Now it's a case of going out there and showing people I can play. When Andy and me were growing we were not as close as we are now. We were playing the same events but then he went off to Spain and we really didn't see each other a lot until last year. Now it's a lot more fun because we get to hang out a bit. He's thrilled to bits with what I have been doing, and then getting into the team. He's always been my greatest supporter, and is so happy when I am doing well. I left Miami to come back to meet the Queen so I didn't get to see him play his semi-final last week. I obviously know something was up because it not every day he loses 6-1, 6-0. But once he got here I thought he would be fine. I'm sure he has some sort of pain or whatever and something is not quite right. But he's big enough to say if he can play or not and he looked good in practice. I've got to know his coach, Brad Gilbert, who is also with us here, really well since he started to work with Andy. He's been really good to me and I have to thank him a lot for that. He doesn't need to. He would practise with me and help me out on certain things and give me advice. He came and watched all my matches in the US. It's great to look up and have Brad giving you motivation. It inspires you. It's been fantastic. I spent two weeks with Tim Henman in Bangkok and Tokyo last year and we practised and went for dinner. He's also been really good to me, really supportive, especially the last few months. He has texted me after my matches. He doesn't need to do that, but he's keen for me to do well. I never really thought I would get the chance to be on the team with Tim and Greg Rusedski, and obviously Andy is there as well which makes it that bit special - really exciting. Everybody is looking forward to it because Tim has come back, and Andy is playing the best tennis of his life. This is why I play tennis. 