 It is seven years since Tim Henman first set foot in the Foro Italico, sniffed the pines of Rome surrounding the picturesque courts, slid somewhat uncertainly over the Roman clay and defeated a portly Spaniard, Roberto Carretero, who after two games of the third set threw in the towel. No problem.  Thereafter the shadow of the Colosseum has fallen darkly across the majority of his performances in the Italian Open, with Henman cast as a Christian and his opponents as the lions and tigers, snarling at his throat. Only once, in 1999, has he managed to win more than one match here, and when he lost his opening service game yesterday against the German qualifier Florian Mayer, who pulled away into a 3-1 lead, it appeared there might be another early exit along the red brick road.  It goes without saying that at this time of year all roads lead to Wimbledon so far as Henman is concerned, and he has always been reasonably phlegmatic about his performances on clay. It remains, as ever, an intriguing challenge but essentially a means to an end for when the courts change colour in June.  The difference this year, and it is marginal, is that Henman is attempting to avoid being consumed by self-imposed pressure; to remain clear in his mind and focused on his game plan; to sweep away all distractions. It is something he and his coach Paul Annacone, formerly with Pete Sampras, have talked about at great length - the key, perhaps, to reaching the Wimbledon final.  It is a constant battle for Henman. "I'm dealing with it better, worrying about my own game and not thinking about the consequences. I've been guilty of wanting to win too badly in the past, although it's probably not the worst thing in the world to be guilty of." And therein lies the dilemma.  On this occasion his indifferent start against Mayer was as much down to his lack of movement as any pressure, other than the indignity of falling behind to the 20-year-old German, who has recently moved into the world's top 100 after reaching the semi- finals in Estoril.  Mayer is hardly orthodox, with a flailing service action and a forehand that defies the coaching manuals. "I could easily have lost the first set. He's unorthodox but very effective," said Henman, who could do nothing but applaud when, at 5-5, Mayer ran down the British No1's delicate cross-court volley and smacked a double-fisted backhand winner down the line from what seemed an impossible position. Simply too good.  It was a critical game which Henman eventually won. Mayer, who otherwise did not display any huge emotion, hurled his racket into the clay in bitter frustration. His moment had gone and the whole balance shifted dramatically, with Henman coasting to a 7-5, 6-1 first-round victory.  He next plays the Czech Radek Stepanek, over whom he holds a 2-0 career advantage. "The faster and heavier you hit the ball against him the better he plays, so I will need to concentrate on my serve." This first serve was the least effective part of Henman's game yesterday, particularly in the first set, although he is a little more confident about his second serve these days, which has frequently been his Achilles heel at Wimbledon. "I'm picking my spot and going for it."  The main surprise of the opening day was the defeat of Germany's Rainer Schüttler, the No3 seed and beaten finalist in Monte Carlo, who lost 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 to the American Vince Spadea . 