 The long build-up to the summer's major sporting events that is so much part and parcel of the British psyche is almost non-existent here. On the eve of the year's fourth, final and noisiest slam, baseball and college football were dominant and Roger Federer, the world's finest tennis player, might just as well have been singing in the chorus line on Broadway for all the publicity he received over the pre-US Open weekend. The Swiss world No1, a name to rank alongside the all-time greats, arrived last year with three slam titles to his name and as the reigning Australian and Wimbledon champion. Yet it was only after he had beaten Australia's Lleyton Hewitt in the final at Flushing Meadows that the recognition of his multiple talents finally began to make a small mark in this city of unquenchable expectations. Now he must repeat that win, or be forgotten again. Over the past decade Britain has had some of its better moments in this tournament, with Greg Rusedski reaching the final in 1997, an achievement that was all but overshadowed by the death of Princess Diana, and last year Tim Henman reached the semi-finals for the first time. Both are here once again but there can be no doubt that it is the 18-year-old Scot Andy Murray who has usurped them in the eye of a public who saw him get further than either at this year's Wimbledon. Understandably, given that he has yet to break into the world's top 100, Murray is circumspect about any comparison and anxious to place this year's successes strictly into context. "I think that qualifying for the US Open as an 18-year-old is a pretty big deal. I don't think many guys can say they've done that. I'm getting myself closer to the top 100, which was my goal at the start of the year. I know a lot of people said I didn't have much of a chance but I still think I'm going to do it." Henman was 21 when he achieved that goal, with Rusedski a little younger. Both singled out Murray as a player of genuine ability from the moment they first practised with him, while Henman was notably impressed by the teenager's passion for the game, something he believes has been lacking in so many British youngsters over the past decade. Henman, who will by 31 next Tuesday, and Rusedski 32 on the same day, both insist they can remain competitive at the highest level for a few more years and Murray must hope they do. The pressure on him is ever growing and should he take over as the British No1 a little prematurely, then the intensity of expectation may be too much to bear. Murray, who has a tough opening match against the highly experienced 31-year-old Romanian Andrei Pavel, has made it clear that he recognises the dangers, and hopes to be allowed the time to hone his game and to mature both physically and mentally before the hype gets out of hand. "I've grown up reading everything about Tim Henman for the past 15 years and I am still in shock that he comes across as a failure after what he's achieved. I'm just starting out and you still get so much pressure. If you were American, or from a different country, it would not be a big deal. They have people like that coming through every five or six years. It's just pretty difficult because I'd rather everybody just left me alone to concentrate on my tennis." That will not happen, any more than it did with Henman, although at least he had Rusedski to share the pressure, while there seems less of a possibility that Murray's burden will be similarly halved. Of the nine British players who attempted to qualify, the other eight failed to get past even the second hurdle. Federer begins as the obvious favourite for his sixth slam title, having lost only three matches this year, and none since the French Open, although it is seven years since Australia's Pat Rafter successfully defended his crown here. Wind is always the great enemy at Flushing Meadows and, with the remnants of Hurricane Katrina due to rush across the eastern seaboard this week, the stage is set for shocks. Federer gave himself a long rest after Wimbledon, then immediately won on his return at the Cincinnati Masters: "I feel really fresh and relaxed, and excited about defending my title," he said. "I've managed it a couple of times at Wimbledon now, but Marat Safin was just a little bit too good for me in Melbourne this year when I thought I could keep my Australian Open title." The Americans will be looking to the veteran Andre Agassi along with Andy Roddick to progress deep into the second week, although the prospect of either winning is based on hope rather than belief. This may be the 35-year-old Agassi's last US Open, having lost in the first round of the French Open in May and pulled out of Wimbledon with sciatic problems. "As much chance of winning as reuniting with Brooke Shields" was one damning comment yesterday. The player who may win the hearts of the most demanding fans in the tennis world is Spain's Rafael Nadal, the 19-year-old French Open champion and world No2, who beat Federer in the semi-finals in Paris. In American eyes, Nadal remains not much more than a Latin dirtballer. All that could change over the next fortnight. 