 It may seem an amazing shock, but Tim Henman is so notorious for his rollercoaster form that it was not such a surprise that he lost yesterday to the world No149 after defeating the world No1 Roger Federer only 10 days earlier.  Dubai has seen some of Henman's most spectacular downturns and his 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 defeat in the first round by Tomas Zib added to the list.  Last year he was beaten here by Attila Savolt, a Hungarian outside the top 100. Now the British No1 became entangled in the mixture of humidity, cooling air, a slowish hard court and the resilient wiles of the Czech qualifier.  Henman likes the general sense of wellbeing created by this stupendously growing city but there is something about the centre court at the Dubai Championships which does not suit him. It is pertinent that all his defeats have come at night, when conditions are significantly slower.  Henman set out to sweep Zib off court. He served aggressively, often scampered in behind his deliveries, took arrogant gambles with chip and charges on the service returns, and tried to create an atmosphere of dominance from which he could open up and take further liberties.  But in these conditions his opponent was not to be easily whisked aside. Zib said: "I know Tim's game well. I have beaten [Marat] Safin, [Juan Carlos] Ferrero and [Rainer] Schüttler, so I'm not nervous. I thought if I got a good start I would get some chances. And I did."  Zib also produced some excellent passing shots and if Henman had a tactical fault, it was arguably that he did not recognise the quality of his opponent's counter-attacking. By the time, quite late in the match, that he decided to be more pragmatic, Zib was already very encouraged.  Henman first ran into difficulties in the sixth game, when he was twice passed and dropped his serve, and he was unable to repair the damage.  He made a good start to the second set, breaking and going to 3-0, only to lose the advantage before regaining it again. It all led to the feeling of uncertainty.  Henman also began the third set well, breaking for 2-1. The key points in the match were the first two in the next game, he reckoned, but he miscued with a volley on a decent return and then failed with a forehand drive which clipped the tape. Zib broke back, and from then on the quiet little battler from Prague knew an upset was possible. In the tie-break the pressure was always on the No6 seed.  "I really want to play better here," said Henman. "Sometimes you go to tournaments where you've had good results and others follow. But here I have to break the pattern. I'm disappointed to be leaving." 