 Before the fourth Test in an Ashes series that has been dominated as much by controversy over the technology used by umpires as England's retention of the urn, one of the prime movers behind its introduction has queried whether the sport was too quick to embrace it. Paul Hawkins, who founded Hawk-Eye in 2001 to provide broadcasters with a computer system that could determine whether LBW decisions were correct and has gone on to utilise it in tennis and other sports, said cricket had perhaps adopted the technology without sufficient trials. The use of the DRS review system has been hugely controversial throughout an Ashes series that England lead 2-0, even before disputed allegations in the Australian media that players were adding silicone tape to their bats to fool the Hot Spot system that can visually detect fine edges. Hawk-Eye's ball-tracking technology is used to review LBW decisions but a rival firm, Warren Brennan's BBG Sports, provides the Hot Spot technology and the Snickometer sound analysis tool currently used by broadcasters but not by officials. "What cricket hasn't done as much as other sports is test anything," said Hawkins, speaking at the launch of the first foray by football into the world of technologically assisted officiating at the Emirates Stadium. "This [football's Goal Decision System] has been very, very heavily tested whereas cricket's hasn't really undergone any testing. It's almost like it has tested it in live conditions so they are inheriting broadcast technology rather than developing officiating technology." The Australian broadcaster Channel 9 provoked a furious reaction from England players including Kevin Pietersen and Alastair Cook when it claimed that some were trying to get around the Hot Spot system by adding a second layer of tape to their bats that could fool the cameras by preventing a nick showing up on Hot Spot. The International Cricket Council on Thursday confirmed that the thermal imaging system would be used in the final two Ashes Tests and said the Australian media reports, which have prompted the ECB to demand an apology amid suggestions of legal action, were unfounded. "These media reports are totally incorrect," it said. "[The ICC general manager of cricket] Geoff Allardice is meeting with both teams and umpires to see how we can best use the DRS and the available technology in the next two Test matches. It has nothing to do with any players." Pietersen described the report as "horrible journalism" and "hurtful lies". He wrote on Twitter: "I am never afraid of getting out! If I nick it, I'll walk. To suggest I cheat by covering my bat with silicon infuriates me." Hawkins, who last year sold Hawk-Eye to Sony and is working to develop systems to help baseball and American football officials in the US, said technology developed for broadcasters was necessarily different to that designed to aid officials. "Hot Spot is a fantastic piece of technology and has been great for viewers and in a broadcast world things that work often really add to the broadcast whereas the requirements for officiating are obviously different." The use of DRS, allowing each side to review contentious decisions until a pre-agreed limit of unsuccessful appeals is reached, has split the cricket world. India has refused to implement it until it is "100% foolproof", while other cricket authorities around the world claim it has had a marked impact on reducing the number of umpiring errors. Ironically, Hawkins said the solution to devising a failsafe system that showed whether a player had edged the ball might lie in engineering rather than technology. "What I would do personally is put it out to a few universities and I am sure they would come up with something, and there's lots of things on the market," he said. "I would insist that all batsmen have micropore tape, durable and transparent, and if gets an inside edge on to the pad the batsman can show it to the umpire and say I am not LBW. That's practical engineering." Regardless of the controversy, the introduction of technology to aid officials looks likely to continue apace. As well as the introduction of goal-line technology in the Premier League, Hawk-Eye is partnering with the top flight in the Dutch football league to trial a new system designed to hugely speed up the use of video for referees in football for decisions during the run of play. The results will have no effect on the action on the field, as the use of technology for anything other than goal-line decisions has not been sanctioned by Fifa, but if successful is likely to lead to louder calls for its introduction. 