 Tennis NSW has said it will consider apologising to a talented player who quit the game 16 years ago because she was distraught it did not appear to believe she had been abused by her coach. It has emerged that the peak New South Wales organisation never considered young female players could be at risk when it continued to employ the head coach who had allegedly indecently assaulted the promising young player. A royal commission was told on Monday that Tennis NSW asked a solicitor to investigate when in 1999 the player, known as BXJ, complained about the high-performance head coach Noel Callaghan. Tennis NSW was advised by the solicitor BXJ could be believed and should be supported but the board decided instead to get further legal advice. Craig Watson, then chief executive of Tennis NSW, said on Monday he could not recall why the board had sought a second legal opinion in 1999 or why BXJ or her family had not been told the results of the first investigation. Nor could he remember anyone raising concerns about BXJ’s welfare or the board considering the possibility Callaghan could be a threat to other young players. Callaghan resigned in 2000 to defend himself against complaints made by two other female players. He was never convicted of any offences and now works overseas. He will not be giving evidence in the royal commission. On Monday the current chief executive of Tennis NSW, Alistair MacDonald, said he would raise the matter of an apology to BXJ with the board – 16 years after she complained. The chairman of the royal commission into institutional responses to child sexual abuse, Peter McClellan, asked whether it was time for Tennis NSW to address “what has been egregious wrong”. MacDonald said it was. Earlier on Monday the former chief executive, Craig Watson, came under intense questioning by counsel assisting the commission, Naomi Sharp, to explain what it meant when the tennis body “closed ranks” after a decision to let Callaghan continue in his employment. Tennis NSW had been given several options by senior counsel and one was not to take action against the coach but to advise BXJ she could go to police. Once it went with that decision it was advised to “close ranks”. Watson said he understood that was because of the general sensitivity and required discretion around the subject but did not think it had influenced a decision not to offer BXJ support. In retrospect, he said, he and the board could have handled the matter differently but it was the first such case to come to Tennis NSW and it had sought guidance from legal experts. The commission has also heard Tennis NSW did not tell the NSW Institute of Sport, where Callaghan was also head coach, about the first legal advice. The hearing is to continue on Tuesday with Ann West, Tennis Australia’s manager for business and risk, due to give evidence. 