 Greg Rusedski was yesterday almost unrecognisable from the player who once hit the world's fastest serve despite conceding only two points on his delivery throughout the second set during a 6-3, 6-4 win over Sargis Sargsian in the first round of the Masters Series tournament here.  His serve will need to be at its very best as his next opponent is the title holder Andre Agassi, who had a bye.  The extent to which Rusedski's game has been reshaped was highlighted by the ace at match point that looped neatly into the corner and spun out of the Armenian's reach at a mere 92mph. Not once during a 61-minute match did the British No2 serve within 30mph of his record-breaking bombshell of four years ago.  The downside of this is that Rusedski now wavers between at least two different actions, making the delivery potentially less reliable under pressure, and places much more reliance on his ground strokes and on his volleying.  Here Rusedski cannily coped with the change from the altitude and aridity of Indian Wells to the humidity and blusteriness of the Key Biscayne waterfront.  Afterwards, referring to his next assignment, he said: "I suppose they will put that on as a night match, to slow it down [to help Agassi]."  However, Rusedski was much more positive than he was at Indian Wells. He waved no more than an admonishing finger at a dubious line decision after he had played a near-perfect match point in the penultimate game, working a decent position at the net only to have a volley called out.  "I might have let that bother me in the wind and the storm of last week," he admitted. "But today I played the right shots. Against [Jan] Boutter [to whom he lost in Indian Wells] I went for the wrong shots. So that feels much better."  Tim Henman, who was given a first-round bye because he is the fifth seed, may not have to play the winner of the match between Lars Burgsmüller and the dangerously hard-hitting Raemon Sluiter until tomorrow. After his long Californian campaign the break will come in handy.  · You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk . 