 It is generally agreed that the Williams sisters, Venus and Serena, who meet in the French Open final here this afternoon, have gradually been distancing themselves from their father, Richard, over the past 15 months.  The rift has widened since the fiasco in Indian Wells last year when Venus pulled out of her semi-final against Serena a few minutes before it was due to be televised live. Serena was jeered throughout her final against Belgium's Kim Clijsters, and cheered when she double-faulted.  The Californian crowd were equally uncomplimentary when Richard and Venus arrived to watch. Richard claimed he was racially abused, which he may have been, but this could not deflect the criticism that rained down on father and daughters alike.  Before that most infamous of non-meetings, the sisters had played each other five times, with Venus winning four. Serena's one win had come in the final of the Grand Slam Cup, a meaningless event.  The daughters remain loyal to their father, as is to be expected, but behind the scenes there has been an attempt to create some distance. Venus is now almost 22 and Serena 20, and clearly they are in a position to make decisions of their own or, at least, more than when they were malleable teenagers. Last year's US Open final in New York, the first time the sisters had met in a grand slam final, was pretty tame, but Venus at least underlined her status as a multiple champion and as the more complete player.  While not being specific, Serena talked last week of being fed up with losing, and there has been no doubting her hunger for the fight during this French Open, a desire that culminated in an impressive semi-final victory over her fellow American Jennifer Capriati, the defending champion. Before this year neither Venus nor Serena had progressed beyond the quarter-finals at Roland Garros. This time their progress to the final has seemed inevitable.  With both Lindsay Davenport and Martina Hingis injured, and Clijsters and Justine Henin under-performing, the path to the final was considerably eased for the sisters but there can be no doubt that they have looked the two best players on view.  It is likely, given the nature of their relationship, that matches between Venus and Serena will always be uncomfortable affairs. Venus remains the more reliable, although her serve sometimes goes awry, but having won four grand slam titles to Serena's one - and that was nearly three years ag - it may be that the younger sister will be that little bit hungrier today. Serena is also a little more secure with her footing on clay than Venus.  "Serena has been playing real well - her intensity level and her running," said Venus after he own semi-final victory against Clarisa Fernandez. Some might think Venus was half preparing herself for defeat.  Asalways with the Williamses, it is impossible approach their meeting without a pinch of cynicism, although today the form appears to favour the younger sister.  · Jelena Dokic, the world No9, will be the top seed in the DFS Classic in Birmingham next week.  