 In the beginning there were six. They did battle for a day and then there were six, still. The opening day of the first ever play-offs to decide berths on the British Davis Cup team saw the two highest-ranking players involved record early victories, but the only thing decided so far is that nothing is decided. Six players are still competing for the remaining two spots alongside Andy Murray and Ross Hutchins in the tie against Ukraine in Glasgow next month. The British No3, Josh Goodall, defeated Colin Fleming in straight sets, while the No4, James Ward, needed five sets and 3½ hours to beat the 18-year-old Dan Evans. In the third game Alex Slabinsky, ranked sixth, was beaten in four sets by Chris Eaton, the No7. Winning all three of your matches in this quasi round-robin will guarantee you a place on the team, but should the results of the nine matches fail to reveal two automatic candidates, fitness and attitude will be factored in by John Lloyd, the Davis Cup captain. There were few spectators at the National Tennis Centre in Roehampton to watch the first day of the play-offs, which continue on Wednesday before concluding on Friday. Traditionally the captain would be guided primarily by ranking in picking the team but Paul Annacone, the head of men's tennis at the Lawn Tennis Association, decided that recreating the conditions of a Davis Cup match would be a useful exercise for Lloyd. Conspicuous by their absence were the British No2, Alex Bogdanovich, and the fifth-ranked Richard Bloomfield. Bogdanovich's poor Davis Cup record of seven defeats in eight matches meant that Lloyd chose not to extend an invite to this week's play-off. The captain was encouraged by what he saw, particularly the fitness levels of all involved – especially considering that all the players, bar the US Open qualifier Goodall and Eaton, who reached the second round at Wimbledon last year, were playing in their first five-set matches. "They all looked to me like they could play more sets, no problem, and I was just loving that because I just know that next week the hard work should be done," said Lloyd, who can analyse the players' heart rates and other data via monitors they will wear all week. "I should be sitting on court with someone who can play for four or five hours, and believe me that is a big bonus." The captain envisaged this week's competition as an "appetiser" as much as a qualifier and was encouraged by the attitude of all involved, even though the likes of Goodall were missing ranking tournaments to qualify for a team that, in the past, he would have automatically been chosen for: "Josh is the highest rank, so theoretically he has the most to bitch about. If you go on the ranking he'd obviously be in my pick straight away." The 23-year-old showed amazing commitment. Having only arrived home from a tournament in Italy at 12.15am the night before, he was back on court at 12.30pm and dispatched Fleming 6-4, 6-4, 6-4. Whether his mother, having washed her son's lucky kit in the wee hours of Monday morning, was feeling as sprightly as him is debatable. Despite having planned to compete in a tournament in Wolfsburg, Germany, the world No197 is happy to be in the play-off, admitting that if his ranking were better he may have kicked up a stink: "I don't think my ranking is high enough to justify myself being directly put in the team without any arguments," said Goodall. "If I was maybe inside 150 then maybe I could stand up and say, 'This is a bit unfair'. I feel a little hard done by, but I don't think I deserve to say I should be in the team." While Ward, No285 in the world, thinks the week is "a decent idea", he would rather be playing in a ranking tournament: "That's the only downside, I could have played the same, but I could have got ranking points as well. But obviously you have got to do it, because if you're not in it you can't win it. You've got to play." 