 After a day of torrential rain, with no matches completed during Tuesday, the US Open leapt back into life yesterday, nobody more quickly than Spain's Rafael Nadal, the world No2, who sprinted around the Arthur Ashe stadium like a man possessed - and that was before his match against Australia's Mark Philippoussis had begun. Nadal has yet to make any sort of mark at Flushing Meadows, never having progressed beyond the last 32 in three attempts so far. This time it may be considerably different, for the 20-year-old Majorcan is determined to make the New York audience, with their "come on and entertain us attitude" totally cognisant of why he is the second best player in the world, and not simply some European dirt grinder. Philippoussis, who was the runner-up here in 1998, no longer figures in the world's top 100, and received his umpteenth wildcard because the US Open has a reciprocal arrangement with the Australian Open. The Australians desperately want him fit for their Davis Cup semi-final tie in Buenos Aeries against Argentina next month in support of Lleyton Hewitt. There were glimpses of the old Philippoussis withering serve, including 19 aces, and clubbing forehand, but not enough to seriously inconvenience the reigning French Open champion and Wimbledon runner-up who has dispensed with his shin-length shorts for a pair that fall just over the knee. Different shorts but same Nadal, all boundless energy and coruscating ground strokes. He won 6-4, 6-4, 6-4. Marat Safin, of Russia, who swept Pete Sampras off the court to win the 2000 US Open title, has cut a sorry figure for much of this year as the former world No1 has fought inner demons and a troublesome knee while spiralling outside the world's top 100, which for a player of his ability is simply ludicrous. He recently parted company with his coach, Peter Lundgren, deciding that for the time being he was better off on his own. Few disagreed. The enigmatic Russian has the talent and power to trouble the world's best, as he so vividly demonstrated in Melbourne last year when he beat Roger Federer in the semi-finals, and went on to win the title. Tennis needs him back in the top 10, and he opened up a little more like the Safin of old with a 6-1, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 first-round victory over Robin Vik of the Czech Republic. There was drizzle in the air at the start of the day, although by the time play started the courts were seemingly dry. However, this did not prevent Guillermo Coria, of Argentina, slipping during the first set of his first-round match against the American wildcard Ryan Sweeting, forcing him to retire with a groin injury. Coria, who has been in the top 10 for the last three years, and who was the runner-up in the French Open in 2004 when he lost to his fellow Argentinian, Gaston Gaudio, has been struggling with a shoulder problem all year, which has badly affected his serve, and has seen him slip down to No 42 in the world. This was yet another unwanted setback. 