 In tennis, more than most walks of life, losing is relative. The Korean No1 Hyung-Taik Lee, for instance, who was bombed out in the first round by the Swiss Roger Federer, might appear to be the sort of guy who deserves a better cut of the financial action at Wimbledon. Though he can comfort himself he was in there longer than Lleyton Hewitt, Lee had travelled a long way at his own expense only to experience disappointment, shattered dreams and another goal in his career plan put aside till next year. As it happens, for his trouble he will have slipped £8,630 into his Nike kitbag, the prize money set aside for first-round losers. Not a bad result for just over 90 minutes' work. And a healthy top-up to the $223,647 (£133,000) he has already earned this season in prize money alone.  Yet the Association of Tennis Professionals is very unhappy about Lee's return. Not his neat, arcing backhand which once or twice made Federer stoop and scramble. But the money. It is, so they say, for players like him that, on the eve of Wimbledon, the ATP player council threatened strike action next year unless the prize-money fund is upped.  The Wimbledon authorities counter that things have changed beyond recognition from the days of the late 60s when the winner took £2,000 and a first-round loser received £50 for his trouble (women got £25). The ATP responds that more of the huge income earned by the championships from buckets of Pimm's charged at £3.95 should be finding its way into the pockets of those whose endeavours drive the spectacle. How come, it wants to know, the grand slams give an average 14% of their income to players when the other tournaments on the circuit hand over upwards of 30%?  "Nobody wants alternative events," said Todd Martin, the president of the ATP players' council, when he announced on Sunday that the players might set up their own competition next year if the Wimbledon authorities did not loosen the purse strings. "But we have to be prepared for action."  As yet in SW19 there is no evidence at the gates of gaggles of players standing round braziers containing smouldering tennis balls. No one has so far established a seeding system for picket duty, or hoisted banners outside Southfields tube station reading "Toot if you support a fair day's pay for a fair day's play". In fact there was little evidence that anyone had been listening at all to the growing militancy of Martin, tennis's own Andy Gilchrist.  Outside the court where Lee was earning his first-round exit cheque rather quicker than he might have liked, Margaret Pierce and Doreen Gibbon from Chester were unaware that this might be their last Wimbledon untainted by industrial inaction.  "Is there a strike?" said Mrs Gibbon. Well, the threat of one, over the divvying up of money. "I think that's only fair," said Mrs Pierce, not quite grasping the intricacies of the dispute. "I mean, I think the women should get paid as much as the men."  This year, in fact, they almost will: £535,000 for the women's champion, £575,000 for the men's. Besides, this dispute is less about equality than quantity. Which may explain why it was hard to find much sympathy around the All England Club for the players' financial plight.  "£8,630 for losing?" said David Holder from Lincoln, as Lee's Wimbledon finished at the earliest opportunity. "Blimey, I could do that."  Up on Henman Hill most of the supporters who go through the annual ritual of travelling miles and paying good money to watch the tournament on a television screen outside the Centre Court were more interested in enjoying the latest chapter of Australian sporting humiliation than worrying about how much everyone is earning. How they relished seeing Lleyton Hewitt go through what for him constitutes a bad pay day.  "I dunno how much I'll be getting for this," Hewitt said after his defeat. "Something like eight grand, right? Ah well, for most of the guys playing it's kinda a dream to be guaranteed that much money. For me, I don't think too much about the money when I'm playing out there."  And would he be back next year, picket duties permitting?  "I think they [the players] would find it very hard to strike Wimbledon," he reckoned.  Hyung-Taik Lee, too, had little time to contemplate a wildcat walkout before he was removed from the competition. The only Korean in history to win a Davis Cup tie and the first to reach an ATP tour final (in Houston in 2001, when he was beaten by Andy Roddick), his every move is watched with Henmania-style intensity back in Seoul. And with it comes the attendant commercial opportunities.  "It's huge in Korea," claims his interpreter. "He is making history in Korea."  Even going out in the first round. 