 Preamble The first time David Nalbandian played on centre court was in last year's final - not a bad performance in his first grass court tournament.  He's beaten Tim Henman in both their previous encounters. After a rainy day of playing backgammon and not reading books - "too boring", he says - can Timmy lift his game for his toughest test so far to make the quarter-finals? First set: Henman* 1 - 0 Nalbandian Henman gets all but one of his first serves in and wins the game with ease to 15. His wife and agent arrived too late to take their posh seats and are having to sit with the riff-raff at the moment. Hello to Jammers, by the way. First set: Henman 1 - 1 Nalbandian* The Argentinian races to 40-0 but Henman pegs him back to deuce. Nalbandian holds on to close the game out, however. "If Henman jumped into a river in Rome, would that make him Tiber Tim?" asks Mark Lipczynski. First set: Henman* 2 - 1 Nalbandian No trouble for Henman. While he tucks into a well-earned banana, the Beeb cut to coverage of Cat Slater-lookalike Lucy Rusedski flirting with union jack-clad adolescents on Henman Hill. It makes for tortuous viewing, alright. "Oi Rookers, what's with the little stars next to the players' names," asks Aidee Johnson. Well, Aidee, the little star denotes who is serving. And while we're at it, the numbers between the players' names refer to how many games each has won. Ye gads... First set: Henman 2 - 2 Nalbandian* They're rattling through these games, neither player making much impression on the other's serve. Nalbandian wins the game with a pefect passing shot down the line to which even Henman gives a respectful nod. "If Mark Lipczynski ate a rubharb desert would that make him a fool?" asks Duncan Sinclair. Not as much of a fool as someone who spells rhubarb 'rubharb', Duncan. Darren Nesbitt - I have shamelessly stolen your line to make me look funnier. No-one will notice. First set: Henman* 3 - 2 NalbandianHenman is chip and charging like the Light Brigade. It's good stuff - a confident start so far. His good lady has taken her rightful place in the box now. "In the same way, he'd be mad to go to Paris (In Seine)," says Phil from Hammersmith, continuing Mark Lipczynski's theme.  First set: Henman 4 - 2 Nalbandian*Big cheers as Henman puts pressure on the Nalbandian serve. But the Argentine (or Argentinian?) saves one break point with a superb cross court forehand which hits the chalk (or titanium pigment or tungsten powder or whatever it is they use now). Henman wastes the second break point, sending a ball needlessly into orbit after the kind of rally which had heads going left to right like a terribly indecisive politician. (Minutes later...) Finally, after about 53 deuces, Henman has the break of serve. Great play. Much more entertaining than your banter so far of which Mike Hopkin is sadly representative. "If Tim got himself a part-time job decorating bathrooms, would he be Tiler Tim?" Good grief, Charlie Brown... First set: Henman* 5 - 2 NalbandianLovely slower serve wide to Nalbandian's backhand to win the game. He's mixing it up like a Sean Ingle extended metaphor. First set: Henman 6 - 2 Nalbandian*Well Nalbandian rather gave that set up and is broken again. Henman played an immaculate set - no unforced errors at all.  "Has 'Cat Slater' taken to supporting a true Englishman then?" asks Steven Miller. Second set: Henman* 1 - 0 Nalbandian (Tim won the first) Crucially, Henman maintains the momentum and holds the first service game in the second set. Nalbandian is a horribly sweaty man, incidentally. Anyone would think it was rather humid out there. "It's Mike Tyson's birthday today in case anyone was wondering," says Matthew Wassell, spookily reading all our minds. "But the day to be born is May 2nd : Brian Lara, Jimmy White, David Beckham etc. - if you're a sportsman anyway."  Second set: Henman 1 - 1 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Nalbandian levels things up in the second set. I didn't see much of it because the Agassi v Philippoussis is a bit more exciting at the moment.  "Quick, before anyone else bungs it in," begins a breathless Mike from Manchester. "If Mark Lipczynski fell into Egypt's famous river but tried to convince himself he hadn't, would he be in de Nile?" Second set: Henman* 2 - 1 Nalbandian (Tim won the first) Henman wins to love for the first time in this match.  "Tim might want to think about relocating to the south of France to improve his game - well, he'd have nothing Toulouse," writes Richard Bond. These are so bad, they're almost good. So keep them coming. Second set: Henman 3 - 1 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Henman is making Nalbandian sweat on his serve. After three deuces he finally forces a break point which he wins by pressuring Nalbandian at the net. He's playing really very good stuff.  "Tim Henman has his own website. Does that make him cyber Tim?" asks Rob Persad. Second set: Henman* 3 - 2 Nalbandian (Tim won the first) Nalbandian may as well go for broke now. And he does. He wins his first break point of the match courtesy of some outrageous winning returns. And he clinches the game with one too. A real zinger which Nalbandian celebrates as soon as he has played it.  Continuing Nalbandian's gambling theme..."Fancy taking bets on rain to stop play when Tim is four games from victory and the Argentine to beat him tomorrow?" asks Brian Murphy. I don't know, he's looking a lot calmer this year. Mind you, he's only had to play two qualifiers and a lucky loser so far. Second set: Henman 3 - 3 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Mark Philippoussis has knocked out Andre Agassi in a thrilling five-setter - probably the best match of the tournament so far. Henman makes rather a mess of this game. He sends a couple of easy half volleys into the net with an open court begging like a hungry puppy. Nalbandian survives a break point to win the game and the two players eyeball each other. There's a bit of niggle between them now. "I've got to admit, Ingle's metaphors grow on you like a colony of E.coli on a room temperature chicken fillet," says Mike Crockett. Second set: Henman* 4 - 3 Nalbandian (Tim won the first) Tim won that one. I missed it because I was reading an email from a friend of mine.  "When Tim is knocked out (and the sooner the better, says I), he could assist you in your game-by-game commentaries; sitting thus primly at your keyboard while you dictate witticisms for him to post on the Guardian's web site he becomes Typer Tim. (Better still, he'd be invisible to the rest of us)," says Rolf from Sweden. Second set: Henman 4 - 4 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Nalbandian is holding on. The Beeb cut to a rather lingering shot of his good lady who is wearing those 'shades' that actually cut out no light at all. You know the ones. Boris Becker makes a shamefully suggestive comment. Tiger Tim gives Nalbandian an evil stare. "I don't care if they were born on the same day," says Richard Rouse, picking up the birthday thread and running with it. "Jimmy White and David Beckham do not belong in the same sentence. I'd like to see David Beckham play football that brilliant when blind drunk. [Disclaimer: the Guardian would like to distance itself from that last remark.] Come to think of it, Jimmy White is far too great to be in a report about Tim Henman at all. Kindly do a bit of Stalinist revisionism on this report. Even if it means deleting this. Anything for Jimmy." It appears Richard has been Roused. Second set: Henman* 5 - 4 Nalbandian (Tim won the first)Henman responds superbly to intense pressure on his serve. There is lots of gamesmanship from both players. Henman survives a break point, winning the game with a smash at the net and then an ace. Second set: Henman 5 - 5 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Nalbandian takes his time and wins the game. Henman is looking more and more anxious. It's a familiar facial expression. "If Henman wrote a follow-up to his autobiography would he launch it in Timbuktu?" asks Richard Rouse at exactly the same time as Henman misses a sit-up-and-beg shot and the crowd groans as one. No coincidence, surely. Second set: Henman* 6 - 5 Nalbandian (Tim won the first) Good solid service game from Henman. If Nalbandian is going to win this set, he'll have to do so in a tie-break. He now serves to stay in it. "If Mark Lipczynski was a Russian pop singer caught miming over someone else's vocals, would he be called Mark Lipczynski?" Nice, but I rather fancy that's a Polish name, no? Second set: Henman 6 - 6 Nalbandian* (Tim won the first) Nalbandian wins the game to 15. Tie-break time. The quality of emails has declined as fast as Henman's control of this game, so I'm not putting up any more until they improve. You cannot polish a poo. Second set tie-break: Henman 4 - 7 Nalbandian Like a plastic surgeon's operating table, it's nip and tuck all the way. Plenty of fist pumping all round. Nalbandian misses a dinked half volley which was just too cute to make it over the net, but he follows up with a perfectly judged lob which gives him two set points. Henman pushes wildly long and it's all square. "What with all the rain delays today, why don't you ask readers to send in their favourite Cliff Richard stories, lyrics, fashion faux-pas and torture fantasies?" says Jerry Mango. Third set: Henman 0 - 1 Nalbandian* (One set all)After making Henman dwell on his ineptitude by taking a loo break, Nalbandian races through his service game to seize the early advantage. Third set: Henman* 1 - 1 Nalbandian (One set all)Game Henman. But frankly, I'm not interested any more. If I'm going to have to work unpaid overtime watching this loser lose again, you're going to get precious little pithy embellishment from me. Third set: Henman 2 - 1 Nalbandian* (One set all)Did I just say I wasn't interested? I was, of course, merely manipulating Henman into a break of serve. And it worked! He wins the game easily with an overhead-smash-fist-pump combo. Third set: Henman* 3 - 1 Nalbandian (One set all)A couple of heart-in-mouth rallies. Henman comes out on top. Starting off our Cliff theme, Rob Oldfield writes: "Around 20 years ago, Cliff walked out in front of my car. But I was young and didn't realise who it was, so accidentally braked." Third set: Henman 3 - 2 Nalbandian* (One set all)Henman misjudges a lob which looked very wide and loses the game.  Is anyone else working overtime? Make me feel better. Third set: Henman* 3 - 3 Nalbandian (One set all)An exquisite lob from Nalbandian puts Henman under real pressure at 0-30. An altercation with the net chord sees Henman broken back. Great, just chuffing great. Third set: Henman 4 - 3 Nalbandian* (One set all)Hurrah! Rule Britannia! What a jolly good whizz! Henman breaks back like Christopher Reeve. (Tasteless? Us?) An anonymous emailer writes: "Put tim in www.oed.com (oxford english dictionary online) and got this definition: 'A term of personal abuse. Example: 1610 B. JONSON Alch. IV. vii, Then you are an Otter, and a Shad, a Whit, A very Tim. 1673 S'too him Bayes "In another OED entry, Tim is also apparently Scottish slang for 'a supporter of Glasgow Celtic football club'." Third set: Henman* 4 - 4 Nalbandian (One set all)Oh good grief, man! Pull yourself together! Henman loses serve again. "It's a net cord," points out Greg Phillips, pendantically. "You don't hear any sound coming out of it, do you?" Au contraire, Gregory old fruit. I distinctly heard a twang when the ball hit said cord. Of course, it could have been the crowd's collective heart string. Third set: Henman 5 - 4 Nalbandian* (One set all)This is frankly ridiculous. No-one can hold on to their serve. The fourth break of serve in a row sees Henman break again. Now he's serving for the set. He'll probably mess it up though. "If you're interested, my friend and I started a Cliff Richard Appreciation Society," writes Matthew Wassell. "It turned out in the end, after a lot of campaigning around uni, that we were going to be forever more the only members of this society. I look back fondly at the meetings though playing his classic hits of the 70s and 80s. What a man!" There was a Winnie the Pooh appreciation society at my college. In a moment of weakness/exhaustion at the freshers' fair, I signed up and was subsequently bombarded with invitations to all sorts of geeky tea parties for three years.  Third set: Henman* 5 - 5 Nalbandian (One set all)Henman is the victim of a dodgy line call which puts him on the back foot immediately. He responds with some good old-fashioned (and almost extinct) serve-and-volley stuff. Nalbandian attacks Henman at the net to bring it back 30-30 and then passes him to give himself yet another break point. Of course, Henman loses it. After all, he is a loser. Loser loser loser. Five breaks in a row. Third set: Henman 6 - 5 Nalbandian* (One set all)I have honestly never seen anything like this in my life. Two double faults from Nalbandian gift Henman the game. That's six (vidiprinter clarification: SIX!) breaks of serve in a row. He's serving for the set now. Surely, he must do it now. We love you really, Tim.  "No you're not the only one doing overtime," writes Ian Fenton. "I am currently eating my way through eight food samples of a new product for M&S. It's a mixture of Fisherman's Pie and Lasagne." That sounds positively revolting. Third set: Henman* 7 - 5 Nalbandian (One set all) Henman serves his quickest serve of the championship so far at 126mph to give himself set point. And at last, he does it! Where are my union jack Y-fronts when I need them? "I resent being called a pendant," writes Greg Phillips. "If you're going to insult me, at least do it properly." Fair play, Greg. I've clearly been watching too much Henman. I'm missing very easy cheap shots.  Fourth set: Henman 1 - 0 Nalbandian* (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)Nalbandian is rubbish. Official. Henman breaks the Argentine's serve for the fourth time in a row to seize the early advantage in the fourth set. "We had an apathy society but it was soon disbanded as nobody turned up!" writes Bill boom boom Ball to the accompaniment of a subdued cymbal clash. Fourth set: Henman* 2 - 0 Nalbandian (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)So sure was I that Henman would lose this game that I wrote in 1-1. He didn't. Don't you just love reverse psychology. I'm Tim wins this match, the credit is all mine. "Surely, surely, you're not allowed to say 'Plenty of fist pumping all round,'" writes Callan. "Although you are of course right about Henman being a loser. I look forward to him losing this set. The loser. Now get back to work." Fourth set: Henman 2 - 1 Nalbandian* (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)Well done, David. He wins his first service game since 1983. Meanwhile Lucy Rusedski is doing her Henman Hill walkabout thing. It's fist-eatingly awful television. When are the Beeb going to realise that members of the Great British public + live camera = embarrassment all round.  Fourth set: Henman* 2 - 2 Nalbandian (Tim leads 2 sets to 1) I've got Barry Glendenning sitting next to me, making a noise like a choking chicken (pick that one out, Callan!) whenever Henman appears on the screen. And, true to form, Henman chokes. It's pitful stuff.  Robin E. Brundell claims to have undertaken a recent survey on ignorance and apathy in our society which he abandoned after the first respondant replied: 'Look mate, I don't know and I don't care.'" Fourth set: Henman 2 - 3 Nalbandian* (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)Shock-horror, Nalbandian wins another service game. Of more interest, Barry is making me a cuppa. "We always wanted to form a procrastination society..." says Edward Stone.  Fourth set: Henman* 3 - 3 Nalbandian (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)A slight improvement in quality of tennis. Delightful passing shots from Nalbandian. Good serve-and-volley stuff from Henman and he wins the game.  "As a subeditor myself, one of the few pleasures in working life is the double-entendre caption," writes Stuart Dade. "Why, earlier today we fashioned a gag about a top male singer bending over backwards to please his fans." If I pretend not to get that, will I avoid censure from my bosses? Fourth set: Henman 4 - 3 Nalbandian* (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)I think Henman has finally found someone who is a bigger loser than himself. Nalbandian loses his serve to love.  "A new place to rant. How nice. I got kicked out of the family TV room for doing this. Feel free to tell me to get lost." OK, Luke Manton: get lost. Fourth set: Henman* 5 - 3 Nalbandian (Tim leads 2 sets to 1)Some inspired stuff from Henman, who, despite all the barracking, I'd really like to see do well (he says, losing any remaining members of his audience).  Fourth set: Henman 6 - 3 Nalbandian* (Tim wins 6-2, 6-7, 7-5, 6-3)To squeals of delight from the assembled union jack asses, Henman wins two match points. Nalbandian's every frequent mistake is cheered and he ends it all with a suicidal forehand into the net. One final fist pump from Henman as he celebrates his place in the quarter-finals. I'm off. Thanks for your emails. You just about made it bearable.  "I was going to call the trainer out for depression!" quips Tim in post-match interview. You and me both, sir. 