 Tennis hopes to lead the way in coordinating a global anti-corruption body for sport which will be run along the lines of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The game's professional governing bodies - the Association of Tennis Professionals, the International Tennis Federation, the Women's Tennis Association and the Grand Slam Committee - will turn to their fellow sports administrators as well as national governments and even United Nations bodies to gain a mandate for action in fighting corruption. The news emerged as part of the sport's soul-searching over its integrity. "In order to enhance and expand the anti-corruption programme the governing bodies will turn to public bodies and authorities for help in combating the threat of corruption," said a joint statement. "To this end the governing bodies will create a working group [of] representatives from each stakeholder to develop an effective global approach to the integrity issue." After achieving what one tennis insider described as an "unprecedented" coalition on tackling the issues surrounding the sport, the four bodies have global ambitions. "It's very exciting that we're looking at joining together a sports agency with governments, attacking corruption for all sport," said Bill Babcock, a lawyer with the Grand Slam Committee. "There is a greater goal here." There is a feeling that the development is feasible with the involvement of a UN directorate such as the body responsible for worldwide culture, Unesco. The grand ambition is not without its drawbacks, however, and even the co-authors of yesterday's report, Jeff Rees and Ben Gunn, admitted it could lead to friction. "A joint sports unit may be possible but it runs the risk of loss of focus, together with the need to compete for resource time and effort with the other sport(s) co-located with it," read their report. Most urgent is the need to recruit a director for tennis's own anti-corruption unit. Although Gunn and Rees uncovered evidence of potential suspect betting patterns in 45 professional tennis matches over the past five years there is currently no single body capable of pursuing further investigations. To that end the two experts recommended the early appointment of a director of the proposed integrity unit with a responsibility "to deter and detect corruption and malpractice in professional tennis by developing and coordinating a strategic and tactical approach to anti-corruption measures on behalf of all of the international tennis governing bodies". An ATP spokesman said last night: "We want to have the director recruited asap so that they can help in the establishment of the anti-corruption unit. We are looking for the very best people in the area of sports integrity." The appointment of Gunn or Rees is not ruled out. According to the report, the director would head up "a stand-alone unit [which] will create a unified and consistent product both in managing intelligence and progressing investigations. It will achieve more effective targeting by having an overall international focus." Rees and Gunn, both Britons, stated the case for tennis's own anti-corruption unit in London because the city is a global centre for betting, has offices for all four professional tennis bodies and because of its specific legislation relating to gambling offences. Although the Gambling Act, which came into force last year, set out a specific offence for cheating by sportsmen and women, there is widespread scepticism about its efficacy.  French tennis authorities questioned the extent of cooperation with police and sports bodies in the UK and beyond and the Gunn-Rees report considered those concerns well-founded. Tennis believes there might be more political will to tackle the issues if a worldwide all-sports body were in place. 