 Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic have plunged men's tennis into a period of uncertainty. The top three players in the world have been elected to the ATP Players Council in a move that will directly affect Etienne de Villiers' ability to lead the organisation. Federer, Nadal and Djokovic decided among themselves to stand for the council and, with no one challenging them for three of the four places reserved for top 50 players, they are now free to exert their enormous influence on the way the men's game is run. All three have been highly critical of De Villiers' leadership over the past year and were instrumental, along with Ivan Ljubicic, the council president, and council member James Blake, in writing to the ATP Board last March demanding that the South African chief executive be made to re-apply for a contract renewal rather than having it rubber stamped at the end of the year. Problems with the calendar and the way the ATP find themselves defending a multimillion-dollar law suit in Delaware next month after they were sued by the German Tennis Federation are just two of the issues that have energised the locker room. 'I think it's fantastic for the sport,' said Djokovic yesterday. 'We're changing the face, changing the picture of everything. We decided together that this is the best thing for the sport, to try to be united and to make good decisions for us, for everybody. In the end we are the most important part of the sport. People are coming because of us.' On the court, Nadal may have persuaded his countrymen that playing on grass is not tennis's equivalent of trying to swim in an empty pool. For years, Spaniards viewed competing on grass as a pointless exercise - and then last weekend Nadal showed that far from being pointless it was even possible to win a title on the stuff when he beat Djokovic in the Queen's final. Now, six days later, David Ferrer has become the second Spanish male in 36 years to win on the game's original surface. Top-seeded Ferrer beat Marc Gicquel of France 6-4 6-2 at the Ordina Open in Den Bosch, Holland, and said: 'I think this proves that we Spaniards can play well on grass.'  Dinara Safina of Russia, runner-up at the French Open, lost in the women's final in Den Bosch to raise doubts over her ability to make a strong showing at Wimbledon. Ranked nine in the world, Safina was seen off 7-5 6-3 by the Thai qualifier Tamarine Tanasugarn. 'One day you play really good, the next day I just was not myself on the court,' said Safina, who reached the final with an easy victory over fellow-Russian and top seed Elena Dementieva. 'Tanasugarn plays very different. She has some unbelievable angles and just made me go crazy in the mind.' Poland's Agnieszka Radwanska won the women's Eastbourne championship - her third title of 2008 - when she prevented Nadia Petrova of Russia from completing a set of titles on all surfaces. The 19-year-old from Krakow, who had already won lower-tier titles in Thailand and Turkey this year, came through 6-4 6-7 (11-13) 6-4. Both players needed treatment in a hard-fought battle before fourth-seeded Radwanska's greater mobility carried her through.  Jamie Murray failed in his bid for a second successive Nottingham doubles title when he and Jeff Coetzee lost 6-2 7-6 (7-5) to Bruno Soares and Kevin Ullyett in a final that was played indoors because of poor weather. Murray won the title last year with Eric Butorac but could not repeat the feat after he and Coetzee made a poor start. 