 Roger Federer avoided further security scares as he moved smoothly into the third round of the French Open but danger still lurks in the bottom half of the draw, namely in the shape of Japan’s Kei Nishikori. While the No2 seed Federer was beating Spain’s Marcel Granollers 6-2, 7-6, 6-3 on Court Suzanne Lenglen, Nishikori was given centre stage on Court Philippe Chatrier and produced further evidence as to why he is being tipped as a champion. The 25-year-old No5 seed was handed a tough test by Thomaz Bellucci, a left-handed Brazilian clay court specialist, but passed it with flying colours, winning 7-5, 6-4, 6-4 to reach the third round for only the second time. Bellucci is one of the best players on clay this year and arrived in Paris full of confidence after winning the Geneva Open title but Nishikori proved too strong in a high-quality contest played in warm sunshine. There were considerably more people in the stands for Nishikori’s match than there were for the opening match on the main show court, in which the defending women’s champion Maria Sharapova powered past her fellow Russian Vitalia Diatchenko 6-3, 6-1 to set up a juicy third-round match with Sam Stosur. Stosur, the 2010 runner-up and twice a semi-finalist at Roland Garros, thrashed the French wildcard Amandine Hesse 6-0, 6-1. There was no repeat of Sunday’s scare when a Federer fan ran on to court for a selfie with the 17-times grand slam champion and the only trouble the Swiss encountered was a 4-2 second-set deficit, which he quickly fixed. Yet while the 33-year-old Federer conserved some energy, Nishikori had to be at full throttle throughout the 2hr 22min he required to subdue the world No40 Bellucci. The Japanese saved a break point at 2-3 in the opening set and then struck decisively at 5-5, nailing a forehand winner at the end of a 22-stroke baseline rally for a decisive break. Nishikori was broken twice, at 5-2 in the second and third sets, but neither proved too damaging as he moved through to a third round clash with Germany’s Benjamin Becker, who beat the Spanish No32 seed Fernando Verdasco in a five-set cliffhanger. Federer, who could face Nishikori in the semi-final, will play Damir Dzumhur in round three after the Bosnian beat the Cypriot Marcos Baghdatis 6-4, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. The No8 seed Stan Wawrinka also made progress despite dropping a set against Serbia’s Dusan Lajovic, winning 6-3, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3. 