 Neil Pauffley is just 16 but already he has a serve that could maim a Wimbledon line judge. His ground strokes aren't bad, either. As Olga Morozova, his coach at Bisham Abbey national sports centre, feeds alternate balls to his forehand and backhand, Neil scurries from side to side sending a series of rasping top-spins zinging within inches of her head.  It is 4.30pm and Neil has already spent more than four hours on court, starting his first session before school at 7.30am. Morozova, a former Russian number one who has been training Neil since he was six, sends him back to the baseline, urging him to hit the ball even harder this time. 'Shoulder turn, shoulder turn,' she reminds him between each stroke. 'Good, now close in and ...' Before she can finish, Neil takes the ball early and volleys into the far corner like a young Stefan Edberg. In the spectators' gallery, his mother Jill, a softly spoken woman with curly hair and watchful brown eyes, allows herself a quiet smile. 'Neil always give 100 per cent,' she tells me proudly. Does Neil Pauffley - who won the Road to Wimbledon, the unofficial championship for British under-14s, two years ago - represent a better future for British tennis? Can we also expect great things from the Ren sisters, Jennifer and Jessica, aged 12 and 11, from Sheffield? They performed outstandingly in December's Orange Bowl in Florida, the unofficial world championship for under-12s, with Jennifer reaching the semi-finals. 'Darn good,' said Nick Bollettieri after watching them at his boot-camp-style tennis academy, also in Florida, which is said to have turned out more champions - including Maria Sharapova, Andre Agassi, Jim Courier and Monica Seles - than any other in the world. 'If they're representative of the players coming out of Britain then there are lots of positives to look forward to.' Well, perhaps. But the Wimbledon practice courts are haunted by the ghosts of young British hopefuls who never made it past the first round. Britain may now have three men ranked in the world's top 100 (Tim Henman, Greg Rusedski and Andrew Murray), which is better than for many years, but it didn't prevent Davis Cup embarrassment against Serbia & Montenegro last month. And if British men have improved, British women have gone in the opposite direction. They won the Wightman Cup (the annual team tournament between Britain and the US that was eventually abolished) three times in the 1970s, while Virginia Wade won three grand-slam singles titles, including Wimbledon in its centenary year of 1977, and Sue Barker won the 1976 French Open. Today our highest ranked player, Claire Curran, is, at the time of writing, 105 in the world, while her closest rivals - Anne Keothavong, Jane O'Donoghue and the injury-blighted Elena Baltacha - are all ranked above 200. You hear any number of explanations for this chronic underachievement. 'It's the weather', I was told, or 'it's the class system'. It's 'those amateurs' at the Lawn Tennis Association (LTA), the UK governing body, or it's the clubs with their 'whites only' clothing rules. It's the lack of indoor courts in winter, or the lack of well maintained outdoor courts in summer. It's the local councils who, when you go to your local park courts, have locked the gates because they're too mean to pay for new nets. Or it's the schools that rarely offer the chance to play the game and only care about team sports, by which they mean football, so that any child who does pick up a racket risks being branded a loner and, given the 'anyone for tennis?' associations, a toffee-nosed one at that. Your best chance of becoming a star is to have a tennis-mad parent, as I did. My father, a New Yorker who came to England in the late 1950s, adored all the great American players, especially Jimmy Connors. Playing with me at our west London club, he would whoop with delight when, with my new metallic Wilson, I managed to pass him, Connors-style, at the net. That sort of vocal encouragement got disapproving looks from the English dads rallying sedately with their sons on adjacent courts. My father ignored them. But there was one thing that always infuriated him and that was the club's patronising attitude towards juniors. It wasn't simply that, as at most British clubs, juniors were forbidden to play after 6pm and at weekends. It was that, if the courts were full and two adults wished to play, they could bump us at any time. On sunny days, particularly around Wimbledon, we often found ourselves taking early showers. 'Goddamn it, what's wrong with this country?' my father would say. 'Why are juniors here made to feel like second-class citizens?' It was a good question then and a good question now. When I visited the west Kensington grounds of the elite Queen's Club recently, I couldn't find a junior anywhere. Except for a couple of women's fours, the 12 indoor courts were deserted. A stern letter on the noticeboard declared the clubhouse out of bounds to anyone under eight. Older children are tolerated, but only as long as they don't use the cafeteria to do their homework. 'The heart of the problem,' says Patrice Hagelauer, the LTA's performance director until 2003, when he left to coach the French Davis Cup team, 'is that clubs in Britain don't have a competitive culture, they have a leisure culture.' He argues that Britain needs to follow the French by making the game more available to the masses and sidelining clubs that refuse to mount competitive junior performance programmes. 'Tennis is a lottery,' he says. 'If you have five tickets you have a chance to win, but if you have 5,000 you have more chance.' Hagelauer's successor at the LTA, David Felgate - the man who coached Henman to six of his grand-slam quarter finals and two of his six semis - takes a less gloomy view. 'Why can't we say we've got three players in the top 100 and isn't that nice?' he argues. 'Let's just enjoy where we are at the moment.' That, he confesses, isn't marvellous, 'but things are definitely going in the right direction.' He points to the progress of Arvind Parmar, the current British number five, who recently reached the quarter-finals at Rotterdam and who at 28 is finally shaping up to be a key member of the Davis Cup team; to Alex Bogdanovic, a north London left-hander, who, after underperforming in the past, won back-to-back victories in Challenger tournaments, the second level of the men's tour, this winter and has risen to 140 in the ATP world rankings; to Jamie Baker, a 19-year-old Scot who honed his skills at the LTA's Nottingham tennis centre and rose more than 300 places on the ATP entry rankings last year; and to Neil Pauffley. He thinks he can get five players, men or women, into the top 100 by 2008. One of Felgate's first moves was to eject players who weren't performing to expectations. It's no secret that Bogdanovic's recent run of form followed Felgate's decision to withdraw his LTA funding, worth £80,000 a year. With his spiky fair hair, flat north London accent and passion for Arsenal, Felgate comes across as the antithesis of the LTA blazer-and-straw-boater stereotype. But he thinks it's too easy to blame tennis clubs for not doing more to welcome juniors. After all, British golfers do well. 'Have you ever walked into a golf club?' he asks. 'To me they're pretty foreboding places.' Inevitably, working at the LTA, Felgate comes in for his share of abuse. The LTA receive most of the profits - between £28m and £32m in recent years - from the Wimbledon championships and many critics argue that they go to waste. The LTA, they say, neglect the base of the game and concentrate on picking out the rising stars, but the organisation doesn't even do that well. For example, Andrew Murray - who preferred training at the Sanchez Casal academy in Barcelona to anything offered by the LTA - has accused the association of ruining his older brother Jamie's forehand during his stay at one of its academies when he was 12. Mark Petchey, Murray's coach until the Scottish player terminated their working relationship last month, dismissed the LTA's new £40m centre in Roehampton; it would have been far cheaper, he scoffed, to lease a plot of land in Marbella. 'The LTA haven't been producing under the current structure,' he said, 'so why ... is it suddenly going to happen when you've got a national centre?' Felgate is so exasperated with fielding such questions that he now tries to avoid them altogether. 'My dream,' he says, 'would be for the LTA never to be mentioned and for me never to [have to] do an interview. Because we're fairly successful at golf you don't hear the PGA or the Royal & Ancient being mentioned a lot, do you? You just read articles about golf. I'd like it if people just read articles about tennis players.' And he can point to some LTA achievements that look impressive, at least on paper. They now have 11 high-performance centres where the money is channelled directly to coaches. Nearly five million Britons participate in tennis, up from three million in 2003; 1.3 million are regular players, of whom 430,000 are juniors; the country has nearly 800 'quality' tennis clubs, bringing affordable and junior-friendly programmes within a 30-minute drive of most of the population. Under John Crowther, the chief executive who resigned in February after nine years in charge, the LTA tried to reach out beyond middle-class club players and make tennis relevant and exciting to children in the inner cities - the sort who worship Thierry Henry and Wayne Rooney. The initiatives range from City Tennis Clubs, where youngsters can get on court for as little as £1 an hour, to Raw Tennis, launched by Andy Murray in a Soho car park last year and designed to combine fitness, skills improvement and competition in a way that appeals to teenagers. Through partnerships with local clubs, the LTA have gone into schools to offer coaching sessions backed by 'vouchers'. Even Queen's now has regular programmes involving schools in Hammersmith and Fulham. Yet Britain is still a long way behind other countries. For example, since 2005 the LTA have helped fund 37 new indoor courts in inner-city areas, bringing the total in Britain to 1,350. However, France, where the population size is similar but the weather is much better, has 6,000 indoor courts. To match that, the LTA would need a further £1.2bn, or four times the amount it has received from Wimbledon in the past decade. The French have 10 men in the world's top 100 and nine women. Sue Mappin, the LTA's first national women's team manager and now the head of the Cliff Richard Tennis Foundation, argues that the LTA are faced with this impossible deficit because of their own long-standing failings. She says she tried to warn LTA board members as far back as 1984 that they weren't investing enough in local facilities and programmes. 'We told them, "Look, if you're going to compete with Sweden and France" - who were already beginning to throw out huge numbers of young players - "you have to do something, otherwise we're not going to have any players to work with in a few years' time",' she says. But the LTA ignored Mappin's warnings. Throughout the Eighties and into the Nineties, they concentrated on the most successful players at county level while neglecting junior coaching programmes and grassroots competition. So while, in 1980, Mappin had a choice of talented 12- to 18-year-olds and players such as Annabel Croft could be assured of good competition at their local tennis club, by the end of the decade promising female players were scarce. The comedian Tony Hawks, a self-confessed 'tennis nut', also found the LTA unresponsive. A few years ago, he proposed free coaching sessions in public parks. In the United States, he pointed out, park courts are usually free and often come with floodlights and a local coach/entrepreneur affiliated to the US Tennis Association, who organises ladders and competitions. 'The LTA told us it wouldn't work,' Hawks recalled. 'If you make tennis free, people won't commit, they won't stay and you won't get them coming back. That's what their research told them.' Hawks proved the LTA wrong. His 'Tennis for Free' team at the Joseph Hood Recreation Ground in Merton, south London, haven't missed a coaching session in two years. Hawks recently started a similar scheme in Hackney, north London, and through such stunts as chaining himself to the gates of locked park courts he's now shaming a score more local authorities into waiving their charges. Now the LTA have begun similar schemes with local authorities. But Hawks points out that Britain has 33,000 park courts, more than any other European country, and that to make a difference the LTA need to be far more aggressive and hands-on. 'As we identify talent we've got no one we can ring to say, "You've got to see this kid",' says Hawks. 'The problem with the way tennis is organised at the moment is it's an inverted pyramid - most of the money goes to the top.' This is an inherent problem in the British game. While tennis's origins go back to the 16th century, it was the Victorians who were responsible for bringing it to a wider audience. The term lawn tennis was coined by the diplomat Arthur Balfour in around 1875. However, the game was actually invented two years earlier when Major Clopton Wingfield transformed the lawns of his estate at Nantclwyd, Wales, into a court for the amusement of his guests. Borrowing terms such as à deux le jeu, meaning 'to both is the game' from the French (today we say 'deuce'), the game was soon all the rage with the newly leisured classes. In 1874 it was played at the home of Mary Ewing Outerbridge on Staten Island, New York, and in 1877 the first singles championships were held at Wimbledon. But while tennis proved a big hit with spectators, in Britain at least it was a sport practised by only a privileged few. If you didn't have access to a lawned estate or a lawn tennis club you were unlikely to be introduced to the game at school - a position that contrasted starkly with the situation in the US where tennis was enthusiastically taken up by the colleges and was seen as a passport to sporting excellence. I have no doubt that my father, who owed his swingeing forehand to New York's public courts, would have agreed with Tony Hawks about the disbursement of tennis's cash in the UK. But there was another reason why he thought British players were destined always to be second best: one that has little to do with the LTA and everything to do with those diffident British dads who used to sneer at his whoops. As he put it after watching Henman crash out of yet another Wimbledon quarter-final: 'You Brits' - I hope he didn't include me - 'think of tennis as a hobby, you lack the killer instinct.' It is a verdict echoed by Neil Pauffley's coach. In the 1980s, Olga Morozova and her husband Viktor Roubanov spearheaded the revolution in Russian women's tennis, coaching such future champions as Elena Dementieva and Anna Kournikova at the Spartak club in Moscow. In the late 1990s the LTA invited Morozova to Bisham Abbey, hoping she could perform similar wonders here. But though the academy had financial backing from Rover, she found the LTA wanting. 'There was no continuity or long-term strategy,' she says. 'At one point the LTA had eight academies when in my opinion we didn't have enough good women players for one.' The bigger problem, however, was the parents. When Morozova began coaching Dementieva, the player hadn't been particularly driven. But her mother, a teacher, and her father, an electrical engineer, more than made up by involving themselves in every aspect of her coaching. British parents, by contrast, would frequently skip training sessions if they conflicted with holidays, Sunday lunch or revision for exams. All Russian parents, Morozova said, used to aspire to produce Olympic champions; now, it's tennis champions. 'All the time,' she said, 'they were putting pressure on me to do more. Here, it was the opposite - parents wanted me to do less.' Jill Pauffley is an exception. 'You can see she's really committed to Neil,' says Morozova. 'It's tough because she's travelling all around the country, but she never complains because she can see her son's potential.' I learnt exactly how tough it is when Jill took me through Neil's recent tournaments. Opening the little red ledger in which she keeps his results, Jill, a single mother with no regular income, explained that since the start of the year they had visited Bolton, Welwyn Garden City, Corby and Bristol. If Neil does as well as he did at Bristol in March, where he won the final, the hotel room alone can cost up to £300. Then there's food, petrol, the tournament fees and the cost of coaching. Although Neil is in an elite squad and Bisham Abbey, like all the LTA's high-performance centres, receives money to subsidise his coaching, it still costs Jill £500 a month. Fortunately, Neil now has a contract with Wilson so his rackets are free, but Jill also has to find money for shoes (Neil gets through a pair a month) and restringing (£10). Perhaps it's no coincidence that many of the best British players (though obviously not Henman) have been and are outsiders - or what my father would have called 'phoney Brits'. Greg Rusedski is the most obvious example; Bogdanovic, Serbia-born, is another. Virginia Wade, despite being born in Bournemouth, spent her formative tennis years in South Africa, returning to England when she was 15. Even Fred Perry never really fit the 'cut' of a British player. After winning Wimbledon three times, he split with the British tennis establishment over the issue of professional fees and took US nationality. He finished his years coaching in Australia - a country that has always embraced outsiders and, you could argue, really does appreciate individual sporting excellence. So who should we blame for the plight of British tennis? I asked John Clifton, head of performance at the Graves tennis centre in Sheffield. Born in Leeds, Clifton learnt his tennis at the age of seven on an indoor court in Edinburgh and eventually rose to British number four. After his playing career finished in 1975, Clifton coached in Germany as well as Britain. The young Felgate was among his pupils. Now in his sixties, he is the person most responsible for the success of the Ren sisters, having coached them at Graves for four years. When Jennifer's father brought her to him as an eight-year-old, she served with the wrong side of the racket, though Jessica, he says, 'was almost a made player before she started'. So if anybody knows what's wrong with British tennis, Clifton should. He accepts that in Sheffield, as elsewhere in Britain, the park courts are run down and most local clubs remain indifferent to junior tennis. But he doesn't think it's all the fault of the LTA. Like my father, he thinks the problems go deeper. 'In Germany,' says Clifton, 'they have this expression: if your coach says water runs uphill, then it does. Here the cutting edge is missing. There's not enough push.' What about the Rens, I ask. 'The Rens are different,' he says. 'Their parents are from Shanghai. The girls' whole life is disciplined.' Outsiders again. But could they herald a British revival? Clifton pauses for a moment. With his balding head, grey beard and glasses, he could pass for the manager of a local building society. 'No, I think we're right up against it,' he responds finally , before adding: 'Brian Clough used to say, "There's a problem with football hooliganism but there's no problem with football". Being a very sarcastic person, I've always said, " There's no problem with tennis, the problem is with the British".' 