 Lindsay Davenport produced her best performance since coming back from injury a fortnight ago to ensure the chance of major revenge tomorrow. An overpowering 6-1, 6-2 win over the French Open finalist Kim Clijsters earned the 1999 champion a semi-final with Venus Williams, the woman who beat her in last year's final, but Davenport was unusually forceful with her comments as well. Asked about the Williams family she said: "Anything they say or their dad says, you guys have a heart attack about." And asked if Serena had difficulty taking defeat on the chin, she answered: "I don't know but it looks like it."  Davenport may be at risk of Venus taking her own revenge for such remarks. But more significantly they suggested that the former champion, who had three months out of the game with a knee injury, is confident again of coping with whatever comes her way. So did her performance against Clijsters. It was a harrowing centre court debut for the 18-year-old.  Davenport won the toss and heightened the youngster's tension by asking her to serve. After Clijsters dropped that game, Davenport began to threaten every second service and three games later she bullied her way to another service break when her opponent served three double faults.  There was barely a respite from the bombardment. Clijsters somehow broke Davenport's serve at the start of the second set but lost the advantage immediately and was soon punished by another onslaught from the American.  "I remember being 6-5 and 30-0 up in the second set," Davenport said of her final with Venus. "And I should have broken then. But I don't remember too much else." Was it a mission to win the title back? "I don't look on my career as a mission." But it is a goal which not long ago was out of reach and now looks within her ambit.  Meanwhile Justine Henin stole a march in the Belgian rivalry. Beaten by Clijsters in the French Open semis, she reached her second successive grand slam semi-final while Clijsters fell by the wayside. It was a matter of amazement in Paris that a tennis-playing nation as modest as Belgium should produce two such world-class teenagers together. Now one of them, who had never before this tournament won a match at Wimbledon, was allowing a former Wimbledon champion no more than a single game.  Indeed Henin's 6-1, 6-0 humiliation of Conchita Martinez suggested she may be capable of an upset of similar proportions to that which Clijsters achieved against Martina Hingis in Paris. Martinez certainly thinks so. "She has great chances," she said. "If she's aggressive she can beat anyone. She is a great player."  Beating Jennifer Capriati, however, will be about as different from facing Martinez as facing a tiger after a cat. Yesterday nothing the Spaniard tried would go right.  Her ball toss, already the lowest on the tour, descended to new depths. However hard she tried she could not get it in the right place, and very soon her backhand would not go where she wanted it either. Then the forehand would not function. "It was horrible," she said - so horrible that she seemed unable to react.  Once, at the end of the first set, she raised one arm in a brief gesture of irritation; early in the second she flapped her hand dismissively; then she volleyed a ball just inside the baseline which was going out, a mistake suggesting she was getting punchy.  Even when a man called alone from the back of the stand, "Come on, Conchita," something conspired to prevent it. She responded with her best rally and duly won it, only to have a drive which landed on the line called out and the point replayed after the umpire overruled.  Part of Martinez must have felt like throttling the line judge but she restricted herself to one dismissive gesture. Henin, who showed she was learning well the arts of serve-and-volley and the sliced backhand approach, produced a dismissive gesture of her own, a trademark topspin backhand drive, arguably the best one-handed backhand in the women's game, which hurtled over on match point and finished the job with a flourish.  "I played so fast she couldn't do anything," Henin said, unafraid to rub the former champion's nose in it. "Mentally I am stronger than I was last year," she added, comparing this week's semi-final with last month's.  "I didn't enjoy enough the moment in the French Open. I don't want to do a second time this mistake." The grammar of this description will almost certainly be outdone by her eloquence with the racket. 