 Setting aside the obvious public disappointment of not having Tim Henman in today's Wimbledon men's final, there would be no more popular winner of the title than Croatia's Goran Ivanisevic. Or Australia's Pat Rafter. For these are two of the most liked, and likeable, players in the tennis world.  "I'm playing a guy who is a good friend of mine," said Ivanisevic yesterday after beating Henman on the third day of asking. "Pat is a great tennis player, but he says he is going to retire at the end of the year. So how is he going to be able to come back and defend his title? It's better that I win. I'm available. Nothing better to do, you know."  The Ivanisevic story - the good, the bad, and the 911 "emergency" Goran - is surely the most remarkable this tournament has known. Coming into Wimbledon, the genial 6ft 4in Croat had won only nine matches all year and was ranked a lowly No125. Last year he maundered around the world, winning only 14 matches, becoming ever more depressed while steadfastly refusing to have an operation, still pending, on his injured left shoulder.  He tried to qualify for this year's Austalian Open in Melbourne, failed, and then did not even bother attempting to get into Roland Garros. But because he is a three-times beaten Wimbledon finalist the All England Club's order-of-play committee, sentimental to the tips of their ties, gave him the wildest of wild cards. What irony that he should become the first player ever to reach a grand slam final with what amounts to a free bus pass, and that he should defeat Britain's finest in the process.  "I think they are pissed [off] now," beamed Ivanisevic, who also knocked out Greg Rusedski in the fourth round. "Public Enemy No1. But I have to thank them a lot. They believed in me." Few others did, save for his immediate entourage, including his father Srdjan, who suffers from a heart condition supposedly unrelated to his son's career.  Ivanisevic is a legend in his own lifetime, a man of immense charm and an immense serve, who now believes it is his destiny to win Wimbledon, having lost the 1992 final to Andre Agassi and the 1994 and 1998 finals to Pete Sampras.  After that last defeat the distraught Ivanisevic said simply: "I go kill myself." In truth he had been but a couple of backhands away from defeating Sampras, and clearly believed his last chance of a grand slam title had gone for ever.  After that his career went into sharp decline, notable only for outbursts of wonderful wit and humour, combined with moments of madness as in last year's Brighton tournament, now defunct, when he smashed all three of his rackets, had no others and conceded the match.  He has made much of the dialogue between his dual personalities, producing a marvellously funny piece of television footage for the BBC in the first week of the tournament, and he has also invoked a third Goran, one he calls upon in emergencies and who came to his aid on several occasions on his way to the final. To date, though, he has employed only the one coach.  This year, Goran watchers have marvelled at his self- control throughout the two weeks. "I could snap tomorrow, but I don't think so because it's too important. I'm just having fun. Everything is working perfectly."  Rafter and Ivanisevic have played each other only three times, with Rafter holding a 2-1 advantage, although Ivanisevic has won their only previous encounter on grass, five years ago in the fourth round. "I have to return like I did against Tim today. If I return like I did a couple of days ago then I'm in big trouble. Pat's a great volleyer and he's not going to give me any free chances. I also need to serve well and put pressure on him."  Nobody is certain, least of all Ivanisevic, why everything has suddenly clicked again. "Nothing in tennis is for sure. I was not sure I was going to get a wild card, and now I'm in the final. If somebody had told me this two months ago I would have said: 'Man, you're crazy, you're not normal.' Now I'm in the final."  Rafter, who lost last year's final to Sampras, the Amercian thereby winning his record 13th grand slam, is not certain to retire at the end of the year but has become ever more disenchanted with the day-to-day attrition of the professional circuit. But he would dearly love to win the Wimbledon title and then lead Australia to a Davis Cup final victory. "Wimbledon has always been pretty exciting for a lot of Australians but I don't feel any pressure to win it."  Pressures there will undoubtedly be. No Australian has won the men's title since Pat Cash in 1987, and Rafter, twice the US Open champion, the No3 seed here and No10 in the world, must be regarded as the favourite. But that is not taking destiny into account.  "I think it's only because of God that I am in the final," said Ivanisevic yesterday, which coming from somebody such as Michael Chang would have prompted a slightly embarrassed silence. Not so with Ivanisevic. "God gave me another chance. He said: 'Man, you were so annoying always asking for another chance . . . so, OK, I give you one more.'" 