 The only person not willing to speculate on Andy Murray making the top 10 before Wimbledon seems to be Murray himself. The latest player to suggest it is "only a matter of time" is Tim Henman, a previous British No1, competing here with him in the men's event that started yesterday. "I haven't really thought about it too much," said Murray, who will play Wesley Moodie or Lukas Dlouhy in his opening match at the Pacific Life Open. "It's now always about the ranking. It's not about winning just now, it's about improving my game so that, when I get to 22, 23 years old, I will be a more complete player. "I think if I do improve my game, then I'm going to get there. I'd much rather be ranked 15 in the world and make the semis or the finals of a slam than be ranked five or six and just play consistently the whole year. I want to be able to build my game so that, when the slams come, I am going to be able to go deep into the tournament." That is all very well but Murray would surely not complain were he to do enough here and at the Masters Series event in Miami to break into the top 10. His bright start to the year has put him in the perfect position to do it. "I haven't played too many bad matches and I've learned a lot from the matches that I have lost and all of those have been against top-five players," said Murray, who won his second ATP Tour title in San Jose three weeks ago. "To win a tournament early on in the year is good, to get to the fourth round of the Australian Open and win 15 matches and lose three is a good way to start the year. But that's all past now. I need to play well here." Henman, who is likely to play his first-round match against Jan Hernych today, feels the same way, though for different reasons. When Murray was on a roll for the first two months of the year, Henman was at home, nursing first a niggling knee injury, then a nasty dose of flu. His two matches in Las Vegas last week marked his belated start to the season. He spent some of his time off watching Murray on television and was impressed with what he saw. He even likes Murray's new, shorter haircut. "I think it's way better than when he had that bush on his head," said Henman. 