 Prosecuting tennis players who have allegedly fixed matches is a complex process and suspicious betting patterns can sometimes be misleading, according to a lawyer who acts for the Tennis Integrity Unit. The TIU has insisted there is no evidence of anyone suppressing reports of fixing in the sport after a report alleged that in the last decade 16 players ranked in the top 50 – including grand slam winners – have been flagged to the unit regarding suspicious matches. Numerous players have been questioned on the subject – based on an investigation in 2007-08 – at the Australian Open. In the wake of the report, tennis’s governing bodies have now announced a review into the working of the TIU to address making the unit more transparent, provide additional resources and suggest structural changes. However, Jamie Singer, a founding partner at Onside Law which acts for the TIU in prosecuting cases, believes the organisation is doing everything in its power to catch cheats and warned there are ​many reasons why betting patterns can be misleading. “Prosecuting is a very difficult thing to do,” he said. “If fixers are successful it’s usually because they are backed by criminals at some stage and they tend to be very sophisticated. The TIU does not have criminal or investigative powers as do the police. So, effectively, it is relying on contracts between players when they sign up to professional tennis that say: ‘We come on the Tour and we can win prize money in return for complying with the rules, and the rules require us to hand over our phone records if there is a suspicion we have been up to no good’. As you can imagine, we often find that when a player is suspected of no good it’s difficult to get them to comply with that rule. Suspicions can be raised from all directions, even people reporting the quality of cars in a player’s garage. The reports focus on suspicious betting patterns but I think suspicious betting patterns around matches do not necessarily mean that players are involved in match-fixing. There are all manner of reasons. “The fact is that those suspicious betting patterns are given to the TIU. It sifts through them and tries to work out the real fixing situations as opposed to patterns which can have other explanations. For example, where a player has had surgery the week before, or when a player has been prescribed medicine because they are ill and somebody knew. The TIU then need to get hold of evidence which is going to stand up before going to an independent tribunal to prove someone’s guilt.” The joint investigation by the BBC and BuzzFeed alleged that a report released in May 2008 recommended that 28 players be investigated but nothing was done because the authorities could not prosecute individuals under old rules which had changed. Benn Gunn, the anti-corruption expert who contributed to that 2008 report, told the Guardian last week that he could not judge the TIU because its operations were opaque, saying: “The transparency of the Tennis Integrity Unit leaves something to be desired.” However, Singer argues a degree of anonymity will always be required when attempting to prosecute players. He said: “If players come forward they usually do so on the condition that they are not named, they don’t want to be in the locker room being attacked by those who they are accusing. It’s a very delicate environment. What has been really encouraging is that because young players are going through education courses, some of the best evidence is player-reporting evidence. “If everything is put in the public domain it makes it harder to get a safe conviction and it disincentivises people from coming forward. Therefore a balance has to be struck between transparency and robust,safe investigations. It’s very frustrating when someone gives information and then says it’s outrageous the authorities have sat on their hands and not done anything. The fact is they would have reviewed the information and if it was credible, and could be backed up with sufficient evidence of wrongdoing, it would lead to a prosecution. The original information alone is rarely enough. The TIU has to take a forensic approach in analysing the information. It’s a very difficult international sport to monitor. The recent allegations​ will probably strengthen the resolve of the tennis authorities, so they may well take further steps to try and protect it.” 