 When you are Maria Sharapova the difference between being 14 and 19 years old must seem like a lifetime. Among other things, she has won two grand slam titles and become a multi-millionaire in that time, and she appears genuinely taken aback at how much she has done since she was 14. "Looking back now, wow, that was years ago," she says, laughing. Sharapova was 14 when she first travelled to southern California, to play what is now the Pacific Life Open. This weekend she will appear as the tournament's top seed, its reigning champion and the world No1. Back in March 2002, she was a skinny wannabe who was big on ambition and cockiness but short on experience and, as she admits, had "legs like noodles". She won her first WTA Tour match there after coming in unranked on a wild card thanks to her management company IMG, who realised early on that they had the walking, talking and tennis-playing equivalent of a cash machine on their hands. Sharapova went into her next match, against the then fading star Monica Seles, believing that she had made it, and promptly got trounced 6-0, 6-2. "I thought I played pretty well, but I guess not," she says, with gentle sarcasm. "That was pretty funny. I remember coming off and being in the locker room and not knowing if I was doing something wrong or she was doing something amazing. It made me think a little bit. Back then I was getting used to everything. I was still fearless but I don't think I knew what to expect from myself." She says now that the notion of winning Wimbledon three years later would have seemed fanciful. For all that IMG and her coaches at Nick Bollettieri's academy in Florida were excited about her potential, the player herself did not have the self-confidence to buy into the hype. She needed to prove to herself she could deliver. "When I was young, growing up, a lot of people told me I was going to be good. But at the end of the day those are just words. It's up to you to change that," says Sharapova, 20 next month. "When I started winning tournaments and I won Wimbledon, I actually appreciated when they said I was good. Back then it was a little weird." This year Sharapova has already reached a grand slam final, having lost to an inspired Serena Williams at the Australian Open. She suffered a hamstring injury at her next event, in Toyko, and has been resting since. She is certain to retain her No1 ranking if she reaches the semi-finals, but will expect to do even better with the draw missing Serena Williams, Kim Clijsters, Justine Henin and Amélie Mauresmo. Martina Hingis, Jelena Jankovic and Svetlana Kuznetsova are her main rivals for the title and none should scare Sharapova too much. Indeed, it seems unlikely that very much frightens her these days. After all, she has come a long way. British No3 Alex Bogdanovic, meanwhile, blew his opportunity to qualify for a lucrative Masters Series tournament for the first time in his career when he was beaten 4-6, 6-2, 6-0 by the Czech Lukas Dlouhy in the final qualifying round for the Pacific Life Open here yesterday. 