 Greg Rusedski plays his first match in more than 8 months today when he takes on the little-known Spaniard Marc Lopez in the first round of the Zagreb Open Challenger event.  The British No2's last match was in the US Open in September, when he lost to Pete Sampras in the third round, and the contrast between playing a legend in front of massive crowds at a grand slam tournament and taking on someone few have heard of at a sports club on the outskirts of a Croatian city could scarcely be greater. Between then and now Rusedski has endured two operations and no end of frustration. First his left foot needed surgery and then, just as he was ready to play again, he suffered a torn knee cartilage. It was enough to test even his perennially sunny disposition. "It's been stop-start, stop-start, and mentally that's been the most difficult thing," he said. "When my knee suddenly went, that was probably the worse moment because I was at the stage of playing practice sets against good players and I was winning them. I was finally ready. "It was just bad luck, really. You have to stay positive. I didn't want to finish my career with an injury and that's what motivated me. There are still plenty of things I'd like to accomplish in my career. I still think I have it in me to win tournaments." As lowly as it is, this event may not be one of them. Winning his first match will do for starters. The Challenger tour, one notch below the ATP Tour, is a kind of limbo for players on the way up or the way down - and for players, such as Rusedski, who are desperate for match practice. "I couldn't tell you the last time I played in a Challenger, but I think it was eight or nine years ago, so it's kind of a strange feeling to come back here," he said. "I tried to enter the Futures event in Edinburgh but they gave away all their wild cards the day before I rang them. I guess this is a step up from that. I would have been happy to start anywhere and, let's face it, it's not too bad a place." And the Zagreb Open, a tiny tournament trying hard to be noticed, loves him too. Suddenly Croatian television is interested and locals are wandering down to the Klub Mladost Sportski to watch a man who was once No4 in the world and a grand slam finalist. It is only the second time in the event's history that a non-Croatian has been granted a wild card. As one official put it, "We want Rusedski to feel like a king". Rusedski looks embarrassed at the idea. "I might be a big cheese but there are a lot of good players here. Most of these guys have been around and this is a level where everyone is just trying to get back up to the main tour again. I guess I'm kind of a big fish in a small pond. I'd rather be in the big pond, though, which is the ATP tour." To get back to where he feels he belongs, he knows he will need every ounce of patience he can muster. He missed several months during 1999 and 2000 with an injury to his right foot and knows from this bitter experience that successful comebacks can never be rushed. "I think I was better mentally prepared because it had happened before," he said. "When you have your first surgery that keeps you out for a few months, you're always convinced that you are going to be exactly the way you were before. But the game moves on and you've got to keep on improving. That's the hardest thing. "I think if it hadn't happened to me before then I would have been much more difficult to live with." Rusedski, who will be 30 in September, knows that the run of wins he needs to restore confidence is unlikely to happen on clay, a surface which will never suit his game. He also appears resigned to the fact that it may not happen at Wimbledon, only six weeks away, either. "I can't get ahead of myself because my first goal is to get on court and play a match, then it's to try and win a match and then it's to try and get on a roll a little bit," he said. "To be honest I think Wimbledon might be a little bit too close for me but if I can do well in these next few weeks, then who knows? I don't really think the pressure is on me because 8 months is a long time to be out of the game. "I'm really looking forward to getting back. Being at home for all that time was nice in some ways; I spent more time with friends, I went to the movies, went to the theatre a couple of times, just did normal things. But it was strange. I felt like I was unemployed." 