 Nationality: Yugoslav. Age: 20. Lives: Tampa, US. Height: 5ft 9in. Weight: 9st 6lb. Turned pro: 1998. Tournaments won: 5 (0 grand slams). Wimbledons: 4 since 1999. Best performance: semi-finals 2000. Career prize money: £1,774,700. World ranking: 11 (highest 4). On court In a nutshell Announced herself at Wimbledon in 1999 when, as a qualifier, she beat Martina Hingis in the first round. Her father Damir had announced himself a couple of weeks earlier by getting thrown out of the Edgbaston event and arrested. Grass or pass Previous quarter-final and semi-final finishes prove she's consistent on grass. The biggest variable is which country she's turning out for each year. Distinguishing feature Superstition. Watch as she blows into her right palm before receiving. Count as she bounces the ball five times before a first serve (twice before a second). Go wide-eyed as she avoids stepping on the court's lines without losing the point or falling over. Yes, it sounds tricky to us too. Hot shot  Ground strokes on both sides. When they go in they're corkers but getting them in can occasionally be a problem. Pressure point Allows resentment to fester. Great exponent of the evil stare and could fell a yak with a look. And watch out for the handshake should she lose - it's brief, cold and not unlike being slapped with a wet haddock. Outside court Hero or zero Has adopted and rejected so many countries that those she leaves behind are less than supportive. The Australian press tends to place her under a pedestal but it seems likely that she will be back there soon. Happy clappies Now coached by Heinz Gunthardt, Steffi Graf's former mentor. He sits in judgment at the courtside and then orders her out for more practice. Her boyfriend Enrique Bernoldi, the formula one driver who used to race with Arrows, may make a rare appearance so long as Jelena doesn't stall on the starting grid. Don't mention Any skeletons in the Dokic closet were almost certainly placed there by Damir, who is unlikely to make an appearance since the pair fell out. British claim Once rumoured to be applying for a British passport for the collection, although she denies this vehemently. But then, you would. Luvvy rating With Damir for a dad, she gets a healthy sympathy vote. 6/10 The winning formula Serbian wallop - dad x Aussie attitude = Yugo-Australo-American party 