 Ben Jonson wrote: 'Greatness of name in the father oft-times helps not forth, but overwhelms the son; they stand too near one another. The shadow kills the growth.' It is a dictum that applies to sport as much as any other discipline.  There have been successful father-and-son sporting combinations, but it is unlikely there is one that can match New Zealand's cricketing Hadlees. Walter Hadlee made his Test debut in 1937 and went on to captain the New Zealand side that toured England in 1949, proving himself, in the words of John Arlott, 'a strategic commander of real ability'.  After he retired he was a selector, team manager, and chairman and president of the board. His proudest achievement, however, was that three of his sons, Barry, Dayle and Richard, were selected for the New Zealand team that contested the first World Cup in 1975. Of the trio it was the youngest who would go on to be the most successful New Zealand cricketer ever and, arguably, the most effective fast bowler of recent times.  Hadlee is in England as chairman of the New Zealand selectors and happy to talk about how he dodged his father's shadow. 'You don't want to be compared with your dad or have people think you only got where you did because your dad was in a position of influence.'  One way of distinguishing himself was to have a different speciality. 'Dayle and myself got there as bowlers, not batsmen. We had to develop a new image, a record which could not be compared with Dad.'  It was also to Richard's advantage that Barry and Dayle had cleared the way for him. Although it proved to be a disadvantage for the youngest brother, Chris. 'We destroyed him,' says Hadlee, 'but we didn't know what we were doing, hitting him on the legs without pads and that sort of thing. On a Sunday night we'd sit round the table and everyone would say how they had got on and we would come round to Chris and he'd say 'I got nought' every time. Then one day he said that he had got 10 and we all congratulated him, but the next day we found out he had got another nought. At 13 he was gone. He's hated the game ever since. But he couldn't be left at home alone so he'd be taken to watch Barry play and he wouldn't watch the game, he'd turn his back on it, just sit and draw houses and gardens. And now he's an architect, highly qualified and highly respected.' An achievement that to Hadlee eyes is because of, rather than despite, cricket.  If he was lucky to be the third cricket-playing son he was less fortunate in the timing and the locus of his birth. New Zealand cricket in the early 1970s was imbued with a culture of, if not defeat, then settling for a draw.  When he started, the players were playing a domestic season that comprised five three-day games a year. 'When your history is young and you are struggling for wins your mindset is not to lose,' says Hadlee. 'You play for draws. We were amateurs playing against professionals. It was a case of get us out twice and chase whatever you need.'  This is not the mindset of a perfectionist and Hadlee, of all modern fast bowlers, was the one who strove hardest to make every ball count. He has talked in the past about every over being like a loaded gun with each ball signifying a bullet. 'The reason I used that analogy,' he says, 'is that every bullet in a gun is a potential wicket-taker. Sometimes you miss, but what you are doing is setting a person up for one to make the kill.  'If you see a guy who is always on the front foot, always coming at you, then you want to push him back a bit, push him back again, until all of a sudden he's hovering on the crease. And if you see someone on the crease you have three chances of getting him out: bowled, lbw or nicking.' Nearly half of Hadlee's 431 Test dismissals were bowled or lbw.  A considerable planner on the pitch, Hadlee was even more diligent off it. It all started with his pursuit of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in a season.  'Ken Taylor [his coach at Nottinghamshire] said, "You should have a go at the double" and I said, "What's the double?" In '82 I had a bit of dart, but got injured and it didn't happen. In '83 New Zealand toured and I didn't have the game time. In '84 I budgeted on playing 20 games out of 24, which meant five wickets a game and 50 runs a game. At Trent Bridge where the wicket was frisky I amended that to 60 wickets and 40 runs. I reckoned I needed 10 five-wicket bags and five hundreds to be on budget. In the end the budget and reality were very similar. I didn't get enough hundreds, but I did get a double hundred.'  Hadlee did the double, the first person since Fred Titmus in 1967 to do so, and it was carried off in style. He averaged more than 50 with the bat and less than 15 with the ball. Bang on budget. 'I was severely criticised for being very specific about my statistical goals. The only reason I went public was people asked me, "Richard, what do you want to achieve?" - and I told them.'  It was this rare combination of determination and talent that made Hadlee such a fearsome player in domestic and Test cricket. For many years New Zealand had been capable of producing half a team. Hadlee's arrival allowed them to make up the deficit. From being plucky losers they became contenders.  There were many highlights. The first victory over Australia, in 1974, was particularly sweet because, as Hadlee admits, 'there was always a feeling whenever we were playing them that we were the little brother, the underdog. It took the Australians a long time to recognise us as a Test-playing nation. They should have supported us a lot more in the 1940s and 1950s. We played an unofficial Test match in 1946, my dad was captain and it was only years later it became official. Then it was another 28 years before we played another Test against them.  'England, India, South Africa, Pakistan, West Indies would play us, but the Australians only sent a B team. There was a feeling they were snubbing us. Then in '73-'74 they sent a full-strength team: [Hadlee can rattle off entire sides in the time it takes most of us to work out which decade we are in] Ian Chappell, Greg Chappell, Walters, Davis, Marsh, Walker, Dymock, O'Keefe [very rare pause for doubt], might have been Alan Hurst, I'm not sure, Redpath, Stackpole.  'I've always said that the best team I ever played in was the '73 team: Turner, Parker, Morrison, Congdon, Hastings, Burgess, Coney, Wadsworth, Taylor, Collinge, Dayle, Hadlee, Howarth. That was the squad of 13.'  Good as this was, beating England at Wellington in 1978 was even better. 'Dad had been associated with New Zealand cricket for 50 years in one capacity or another and had never seen us beat England. We won as much for him as anyone else.' It had taken 48 years and 48 Tests and Hadlee won it taking four for 74 in the first innings and six for 26 in the second when England were all out for 64 with only Ian Botham and Phil Edmonds managing double figures. At the end, Wisden records: 'the crowd gathered in front of the pavilion and sang, "For they are jolly good fellows", followed by three cheers.'  At the time of this victory Hadlee might have been playing for Kerry Packer in the rebel World Series Cricket, but 'it was the mid to late Seventies and New Zealand wasn't rated'. Particularly by Australians - not one Kiwi was invited. 'When the World Series came to us,' says Hadlee, 'I was invited to play in the world team out of courtesy and to give it credibility. I was actually player of the series. Revenge, I suppose.' In the mid-1980s, in one golden patch, New Zealand won consecutive away series against Australia (Hadlee's 33 wickets in the three-match series included nine for 52 in the second innings of the first Test) and England (Hadlee taking nearly half the wickets at an average of just over 20).  All these achievements were racked up in near silence. 'In my early days there was a bit of boyish enthusiasm,' he says, 'but I knocked it out very quickly. In my middle and late years I hardly said boo to anyone. Greg Matthews said I was the most intimidating bowler because I never said anything, I would just glare and nod. I regard that as a wonderful compliment.'  The silent assassin seems a world away from the hubbub of Twenty20, a game that might have been designed for the all-rounder age of Hadlee, Botham, Kapil Dev and Imran Khan. How much does he think he might have fetched at auction had he been playing. 'Ohhh, five million.' And then suddenly concerned he might appear boastful he launches into a flurry of denial. 'Delete that. Delete that. I meant rupees anyway. To me money does not buy success and, yes, the money's fantastic, but is the spectacle any better? I'm enjoying Twenty20. It only takes three-and-a-half hours which means I can play a game of golf in the afternoon.'  What is his handicap?  'Thirteen... I'm not happy with that.'  Continuing the perfectionist theme, he has never been that thrilled by playing shorter versions of the game. 'One-day cricket frustrated me because of the limitations, good balls going for four or six, no slips to take catches so nicks cost you runs. It is more of a game of chance.' And Hadlee does not take chances. 'Test cricket is a game of skill with no limitations, a game of manipulations and tactics. Test cricket is important, it should never be tampered with or compromised.'  And it is Test cricket that will be played at Lord's on Thursday. The chairman is happy with his captain. '[Daniel] Vettori's doing very well. He's doing very, very well,' says Hadlee, 'and the players enjoy playing under him. There's a lot of Stephen [Fleming] in him. In time we'll see him as one of the outstanding captains.'  But once again they appear to have half a team. The batting is fragile, the bowling lacks depth. 'The players we have are more suited to one-day cricket. We have made five World Cup semi-finals and the Twenty20 semi-finals. Tactically we are pretty good in the one-day game. We believe we can go and win. But in Test cricket we are inconsistent. You have to bat time, not overs, in Test cricket, whereas in the one-day game you bat overs, not time. We might score well in the first innings, but then be bowled out for a paltry score in the second innings. We may surprise, but England are hot favourites. We have to overcome Ryan Sidebottom. We can't allow him to dominate,' concludes Hadlee, doffing the cap to a fellow Nottinghamshire player and late developer.  Before he leaves, there is one more compliment for those infernal Aussies. 'It's mental toughness that makes the Aussies so good. They are perceived to be arrogant, but I've no problem with arrogance if it gives you an advantage, because this game's about winning. Very rarely do you see a complacent Australian.' It is a fair point.  Sir Richard Hadlee will feature in Sky Sports' live and high-definition coverage of England v New Zealand, starting Thursday 