 Lindsay Davenport (US) [3] beat Alicia Molik (AUS) 6-4 6-2  Third seed Lindsay Davenport has cruised to an easy victory in her second round centre court match with Alicia Molik, the unseeded Australian.  Molik briefly threatened to put up a fight, dropping just two points in her first three service games and serving two aces. The 1999 champion broke Molik's serve in the seventh game and dominated the rest of the match to complete an impressive victory over the Australian, who is ranked 70 in the world and beat Jelena Dokic in Birmingham earlier this month.  Davenport will now face either Switzerland's Patty Schnyder or Germany's Jana Kandarr.  (2) A Agassi (USA) beat J Delgado (GBR) 6-2 6-4 6-3 Britain's hopeful, Jamie Delgado, has fallen to former Wimbledon champion Andre Agassi in three straight sets. In a centre court match that lasted just an hour and 28 minutes, he 24-year-old attempted to emulate the exploits of fellow Briton Barry Cowan, trading powerful groundstrokes with the second seed.  But Agassi's immense power helped him to break Delgado's serve in the sixth and eighth games of the first set, which he won comfortably 6-2. Delgado put up a respectable fight in the second set, holding his serve until the 10th game when Agassi broke him to love to increase his lead to two sets to love. In a final thrilling set, Agassi dominated after effortlessly gaining the crucial break in the fourth game.  Nevertheless, Delgado managed to save four match points in a marathon eighth game before Agassi sealed the match in the ninth. Arvind Parmar (GBR) lost 6-7 (5-7) 6-3 6-3 6-1 to Yevgeny Kafelnikov (RUS) Unseeded Briton Arvind Parmar lost 6-7 (5-7) 6-3 6-3 6-1 against the seventh seeded Russian Yevgeny Kafelnikov in their second round match. Rain stopped play just two minutes into the match on court two, but Parmar seized an early lead when they returned 75 minutes later. Kafelnikov was taken aback by his opponent's performance in the opening - by a player ranked nearly 200 places below him. But the Russian pulled into the lead in the ninth game, only to be forced into a tie-break by two double faults. The 23-year-old Briton won the tie-break 7-5 to take the first set 6-7. Parmar's service continued to hold up well the second set as he gained confidence, but Kafelnikov broke him in the seventh game for a 4-3 lead. Kafelnikov converted a third set point for 6-3 to level matters at 1-1. The seventh seed saved then three break points in the fourth game of the third as Parmar put on the pressure, but he still managed to emerge from the set with a 2-1 lead.  Parmar was made to rue those earlier missed chances as he increasingly ran out of steam in the fourth set. The Briton could not summon the agression to grasp two chances to break back as Kafelnikov won six games in a row, securing a third break in the set, to seal a 6-7 6-3 6-3 6-1 victory. 