 Jeremy Bates has sore knees. This is not because they have been knocking at the prospect of Great Britain's Davis Cup world group match against Australia.  Bates, Britain's coach, has been leading by example as he and Roger Taylor, the captain, have been preparing Miles Maclagan, Alex Bogdanovic, Alan Mackin and Arvind Parmar for a tie that will be over within two days of its allotted three this weekend.  It is customary to insert "barring a miracle," but on this occasion it is unnecessary. Britain will lose, and probably without winning a set. The minute Greg Rusedski pulled out, the tie swung violently in Australia's favour. Tim Henman's withdrawal handed it to Australia on a platter.  But the show in Sydney must go on, and Bates has left no grain of clay unturned in his quest to squeeze the absolute maximum out of the four Britons, all painfully inexperienced at this level, so that embarrassment will be kept to a minimum. Not that he is talking in quite these terms.  What Bates and Taylor are clearly hoping is that one player might, in Bates's words, "come up with the performance of a lifetime". But this is Britain's weakest team for years and the Australians are at their strongest, with Lleyton Hewitt, the world No1, supported by Mark Philippoussis.  "You can't simulate match conditions but we have been working hard and the spirit is very good," said Bates, who has been particularly impressed by Bogdanovic, the 18-year-old Belgrade-born left-hander who was fast-tracked into the side the moment Rusedski cried off.  Bates acknowledged much may depend on the teenager's physical development. He has strong, powerful legs but needs to work hard on his upper body.  "I think that will come. Alex has long arms, which already enables him to develop considerable power," said Bates. "Now it is a question of waiting for him to step up, just like Henman did at Wimbledon against Yevgeny Kafelnikov." That was in 1996 when Henman, then 21, defeated the Russian, who had just won the French Open, and went on to reach the quarter-finals.  "They have the chance," Bates said. "We have watched the Aussies practise, and seen them walking about the hotel. I think Hewitt is a bit more human to them now."  Human he may be, but no less daunting. 