 Tennis players live in a world in which age is more or less double-counted. Sixteen-year-olds are all grown up and 26 is middle-aged, so the 36-year-old Wayne Arthurs is probably due a telegram from the Queen soon. Yesterday, though, this Australian veteran beat the No11 seed Tommy Robredo 6-3, 7-6, 6-3 and by a quirk of the draw plays 35-year-old Jonas Bjorkman next, in what will be a battle of the positively ancient warriors. "I don't think we're allowed to play before Monday because the Over-35s [tournament] doesn't start until next week," said Arthurs, who was met as he came off Court 17 by two Australians who work as men's locker-room attendants and who had helpfully brought a wheelchair out with his name stuck on the back. The Australian sense of humour can be as robust as its sportsmen. They breed them hardy there, which is why no one should be surprised to see Arthurs in the third round of the tournament he says is his last. He is one of two Australian men through to that stage, along with Lleyton Hewitt, although they were very nearly joined by Chris Guccione, who led the No6 seed Nikolay Davydenko by two sets to love before losing 3-6, 5-7, 7-6, 6-4, 6-2. Guccione is known as Gooch, thus adding credence to the theory that, by an invisible article of Australian law, all sportsmen from the Antipodes have to have nicknames - just ask the cricketer Adam "Gilly" Gilchrist, who was there to watch his countrymen win yesterday. Hewitt is known as Rusty though he looked anything but in beating the unheralded Italian Simone Bolelli 6-2, 6-2, 6-1. Arthurs played to shouts of "Go Wayno" but he is a quietly spoken, intelligent family man who is a long way from the brash stereotype beloved of those whose knowledge of Australian culture stops at Neighbours. He is also a remarkably good grass-court player and on his late-blooming singles debut at Wimbledon in 1999 went 111 games without dropping his serve en route to the last 16. He has made eight visits to the All England Club since but, until now, has never recaptured that form. This year, though, with his parents, his partner Caroline and baby daughter Amber in tow, he has returned with a determined glint in his eye. He had to come through qualifying, just as he did in 1999, and came from two sets down in his first-round win over the 18-year-old Dutchman Thiemo de Bakker, but those battling qualities were not really needed against Robredo once his giant lefty serve and neat, unfussy volleys found their mark. Arthurs's swansong is turning out to be a happy contrast to his miserable goodbye to the Australian Open in January, where he was forced to retire from his home grand slam tournament with tears streaming down his cheeks after a pain-killing injection administered for a hip injury before his third-round match against Mardy Fish hit a femoral nerve and temporarily paralysed him. Having been stymied by a freakishly cruel occurrence there he is ending his career in London, the city he lived in for nine years. "I was probably close to calling it a day in Australia, it's just that the circumstances weren't right for me," said Arthurs. "And coming back here, it's always been my favourite tournament and it's been a good decision." Arthurs is not the only Antipodean for whom London has been a temporary home and every Australian within a 10-mile radius seemed to be on Court 17 to cheer him on yesterday, as well they should. They cheer for Hewitt, too, of course, especially when he plays as well as he did yesterday, but Arthurs enjoys the special affection that Australians reserve for underdogs, an affection which has deepened as he has got older. He will not be favourite against Bjorkman either - the Swede was a surprise semi-finalist at Wimbledon last year - though he will be spurred on by the history the two old stagers share. "We've had a few run-ins in the past," said Arthurs. "He hit me pretty hard in the nether regions in Davis Cup probably three or four years ago." Age does not appear to have dampened the competitive fire in Arthurs. He is an Aussie battler to his ageing bones. 