 Lleyton Hewitt retired to his bed yesterday, stricken with a nasty case of chickenpox, leaving the organisers of the Australian Open coming to terms with the possibility that the world No1 may not be fit for his home grand slam. With only 10 days to go before the tournament begins in Melbourne, Hewitt's chances of participating, let alone winning, must be in some doubt.  Hewitt's illness, diagnosed by the tournament doctor at the Hopman Cup in Perth yesterday, has also sparked fears that Hewitt might have inadvertently started an outbreak of the highly infectious disease among the tennis community. Hewitt has been contagious since Tuesday, when he broke out in spots, and it has set off a case of mild panic in all the officials, ball boys and girls, and, most importantly, players he has come in to contact with since then.  Given that chickenpox reportedly has an incubation period of between seven and 14 days, it is conceivable that anyone who came into contact with Hewitt could have contracted the virus and will not find out until symptoms present themselves just as the Australian Open is getting under way.  Paul McNamee, the tournament director for both the Hopman Cup and the Australian Open, was resolutely upbeat about the 20-year-old's chances of being fit to play in Melbourne. "Doctors are very confident because of the way he feels, the way the symptoms are, the medication he is taking," he said. "It was really good that he saw the best doctors and got the best medication right away."  Hewitt reportedly first felt ill on Tuesday, while watching his girlfriend Kim Clijsters play, and complained of a headache and a fever before the tell-tale spots began to emerge. He then saw a specialist before his match against Mariano Zabaleta on Wednesday but initially tested negative for chickenpox. After showing almost superhuman fortitude to beat Zabaleta and then win his mixed doubles with Alicia Molik, Hewitt was tested again and given the bad news.  Zabaleta is one of the players thought to be most at risk from catching the illness, while Clijsters is probably free from the possibility of infection having already suffered from chickenpox.  Other players competing with Hewitt in Perth this week include his mixed doubles partner Molik, Monica Seles, Roger Federer and Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, although Molik is thought to have had the illness in childhood.  Meanwhile it was business as usual here at the AAPT Championships, where Mark Philippoussis thundered past Sjeng Schalken 6-0, 6-3. Philippoussis has lost 10 kilograms in the last few months but he still hits the ball like a man possessed, as Schalken found out.  Todd Martin and Hicham Arazi were the day's other winners. Martin beat Michael Llodra 7-5, 6-4 and Arazi defeated Paul-Henri Mathieu 6-4, 0-6, 6-2. 