 And so to the Kia Oval for the final Test but not the climax of the series. To the surprise of many and the relief of some, especially those inhabiting the England dressing room, the Ashes are decided. That may diminish the occasion a little but not as much as might be though. An Ashes Test often has a momentum of its own regardless of the state of the series. Moreover the outcome of a “dead” Test can be significant. In Sydney back in 1987 Australia, 2-0 down in the series, won narrowly. The consequence was that Allan Border continued as captain. He would have gone, quite possibly of his own volition if the series had been lost 3-0. Instead he kept going until 1994. Similarly in 1997 at The Oval England won a low scoring contest so that Australia’s victory margin was restricted to 3-2. Thereafter Mike Atherton was persuaded to continue as captain and to take the side to the West Indies the following winter. He did not really want to do that. This time the captaincy issues have already been decided. There have also been some great moments in “dead” matches. In Sydney in 1999 there was Darren Gough’s hattrick on the first day and a fine match to follow. In 2003 Steve Waugh to general euphoria completed his century in the last over of the day yet England came back to win comfortably. At the Kia Oval two years ago there was that funky declaration from Michael Clarke, which ensured that everyone stayed on to the last minute of the last day, except one or two senior disgruntled members of the Australian contingent. So there is no need to head there now with a heavy tread. Something will happen. Moreover the ICC’s Test match rankings predictor (probably not a real person but a computer programme devised by David Kendix) tells us of the statistical significance of the match. If England were to win the series 4-1 they would leap from sixth position to second in the Test rankings, overtaking Australia. Otherwise they will have to be content with a rise to third position. Currently South Africa lead that table by a distance with the rest tightly bunched. It may well be that the batsmen will last a bit longer than at Trent Bridge or Edgbaston, admittedly not a difficult task. The surface has been sluggish at this ground in recent years and it has been hard work for the pacemen. Jimmy Anderson will play only if he can convince everyone of an absolutely complete recovery – and even then there is a case for saving him for the winter. England may, however, consider playing Adil Rashid, a proposition that can be viewed with less angst now that the Ashes are secure. Last time against Australia at The Oval the selectors plucked out Simon Kerrigan, Lancashire’s left-arm spinner, and were roundly pilloried for doing so. In many ways it was a valuable decision – even though Kerrigan had a rotten time – since it was so informative. Having failed to give Rashid an opportunity in Barbados, which would have been an ideal testing ground, it would be invaluable to see how he reacts to Test cricket before the winter tour selections are made. There are three ways to get Rashid into the team. The conventional one would be to omit a pace bowler; or the selectors could take the unusual step of swapping wicket-keepers by giving the gloves to Jonny Bairstow. They could even invite Moeen Ali to open the batting instead of Adam Lyth, an option that is more likely to be explored in the UAE. But after all the speculation, if the sun declines to reappear, Rashid may have to wait until his arrival in the UAE to make the debut he probably deserves after all this time. The sole disadvantage of being selected is that the soaring reputation of the absentee cricketer will be put to the test. The challenge for England will be to win in conditions unlikely to be as favourable as in the last two Tests. Can they demonstrate that they can be consistently good? The Australians are playing for pride and places, although this should not apply to Chris Rogers who has performed well and who has said that he is retiring after this series. Apart from their newly appointed captain and vice-captain, Steve Smith and David Warner respectively, taking office after Clarke’s last stand, none of their batsmen can be certain of continuing his Test career after leaving England. Runs in this final Test might enable one or two to survive. Meanwhile Clarke, emasculated in the series so far, would love to go with a flourish if only to suggest that this was not a series too far. For Australia there are significant changes on the horizon, for England significant challenges. It could be argued that this will be England’s easiest Test match for six months. This winter three Tests in the UAE before Christmas against Pakistan and then four more in South Africa will be difficult and very different. Recently England have not always prospered after an Ashes triumph. After the epic 2005 series the bowlers started to hobble and the side became ever more distracted after their success. It fell apart all too quickly as did the team that won in 2013. That was a mundane series but the disintegration afterwards was spectacular. This time there is scope for optimism. The team is yet young, exciting and learning fast while the senior players, Ian Bell, Anderson and Stuart Broad (who is still only 29), remain impressively committed to the cause and the captain. But there are obvious improvements to be made. England have yet to find a reliable opening partner for Alastair Cook and the search for another spinner for the tour party to the UAE (beyond Moeen and Rashid) continues. Yet there is much to be cheerful about while strolling up the Harleyford Road on Thursday morning. England arrive at the ground in a rather better position than anyone, including their captain, predicted at the start of the summer. 