 It is difficult to imagine Andy Murray spending three hours in the company of journalists. Yet that is what Rafael Nadal, the world No1, did on Sunday, visiting the offices of L'Equipe, France's sports paper, to give an interview, sign autographs and watch his beloved Real Madrid play Athletic Bilbao on a large television screen. The Parisians have thrilled to the sight of Nadal winning the French Open for the past four years on the clay of Roland Garros but this is the first time they have welcomed him to the autumnal Paris Masters as world No1, the young Spaniard taking over from Roger Federer in mid-August and securing the ranking for the rest of the year during the recent Madrid Masters. There is no doubt Nadal is loving every moment, hence his visit to L'Equipe. Yesterday he was at court-side early to watch David Nalbandian, who beat him in last year's final. The two could meet in Saturday's semi-final, though more pertinently their paths will cross next month in the Davis Cup final. "Rafa world No1" read a banner in the Palais Omnisports, and he grinned and waved in response. Later he returned to the same court to win his opening match 6-2, 6-4 against France's Florent Serra, a qualifier. Unlike the springtime crowds at Roland Garros, the French fans here have rarely seen the best of Nadal. He is normally struggling with fatigue, bordering on exhaustion. Although his serve is greatly improved, winning him more cheap points, the Spaniard's game continues to place a high premium on physical exertion. Yesterday was his 91st singles match of the year, of which he has won 81. For the third tournament in succession Nalbandian will play fellow Argentinian Juan Martin del Potro today, with both due to team up for the Davis Cup final in Mar del Plata. The 20-year-old, 6ft 5in Del Potro, nicknamed the toothpick, was clearly a major talent in the making when he burst on to the scene as a teenager, though like Murray his real progress was made this year. Prior to the US Open he won four successive tournaments and, when he met Murray in the quarter-finals at Flushing Meadows, he had stretched his unbeaten run to 23 matches. From being outside the top 50 he rushed into the top 10 and is now poised to capture one of the three remaining places at the Masters Cup in Shanghai, starting on Sunday week, although Nalbandian could yet thwart him. "That's sport," said the former Wimbledon runner-up and winner of the Masters Cup three years ago when he came from two sets down in the final to beat Federer. Spain's David Ferrer rose almost unnoticed into the top 10 last year and then reached the final of the Masters Cup where he ran into Federer. This year has been much more of struggle for the Spaniard and after yesterday's 6-3, 6-2 defeat by Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber, Ferrer lost his last chance of returning to Shanghai. Jamie Murray, temporarily teamed up with Pavel Vizner of the Czech Republic, having split from Max Mirnyi of Belarus, won his opening doubles match 6-2, 6-7, 10-8, an encounter given added spice by the fact that it was against Mirnyi, partnered by Croatia's Marin Cilic. 