The controversial Australian, who faces Andy Murray in the first round of the US Open, has expressed his regret at his actions in the incident involving Stan Wawrinka and says he deserved to be punished 
 Australia’s Nick Kyrgios, billed as the new enfant terrible of men’s tennis, says he has learned his lessons after the unsavoury on-court incident that has led to him being fined and handed a suspended ban from the ATP Tour. On the eve of the US Open, in his first interview since the extended punishment was announced last week, the 20-year-old told the Observer that he deserved the ban, that he has apologised to the players concerned and that it is not something he would do again. But almost in the next breath, Kyrgios said he was “not embarrassed at all”. Kyrgios fell foul of ATP rules when he told Stan Wawrinka during their match in the Rogers Cup in Montreal this month: “[Thanasi] Kokkinakis banged your girlfriend. Sorry to tell you that mate.” It was an ugly incident, caught clearly on television microphones, which caused ripples within the sport, with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal saying those kind of comments had no place in tennis. Wawrinka, the French Open champion, was sufficiently riled that the Swiss later confronted Kyrgios in the locker room. The girlfriend referred to was the WTA player Donna Vekic of Croatia and on Saturday, as he looked back on the events of the past month, Kyrgios said he had not expected the furore when he opened his mouth on court. “I originally didn’t think it would be picked up [on microphones] like that but it happened,” he said. “I guess I’ll just learn from it. I mean, obviously I wouldn’t do it again but I wouldn’t say I was embarrassed by it at all. I’m not embarrassed by it.” In addition to the total of $35,000 in fines he received, Kyrgios said he had no issue with the one-month ban, which will come into force only if he accumulates another $5,000 or more in fines at ATP-sanctioned events (not grand slams or the Davis Cup) in the next six months. “I think it is fair,” he said. “I deserved to be punished, to some extent. Obviously I’m still young. [But] they [the ATP] are giving me the impression that they are going to start locking down on that sort of stuff, so I’ve definitely learned my lesson. “I think if I accumulate over $5,000 worth of fines the suspended ban kicks in, so I definitely know that I’ve got to keep everything in order and obviously be on my best behaviour out there. But at the same time I’m not going to go out there not showing any emotions. I am going to go out there and try to be myself.” Last week in Cincinnati, Wawrinka said Kyrgios had not apologised, at least not to the extent he expected. On Saturday, Kyrgios said he has. “I apologised to Stan privately and publicly,” he said. “I apologised to Donna, not in person, but obviously through contacts.” There is a streak of stubbornness that runs through Kyrgios, which doubtless helps his tennis, if not always his public relations. When asked if he thought he should apologise to Vekic in person, he said simply: “No.” Asked if Wawrinka had accepted his apology, he said: “Whether he accepted it or not, it’s not my problem.” Vekic was quoted this past week as saying it was ridiculous that Kyrgios had not been banned for the incident. Kyrgios is keen to draw a line under the matter and he is not the first player to make mistakes. While admitting it had been a tough time, he said he is not being treated any differently by his fellow players. “The guys I’ve always had a good relationship with … me and Thanasi [Kokkinakis], nothing’s changed there,” he said. “Jack Sock [the American player], I’m hanging with him as much as I can. There are a lot of guys in the locker room that are very supportive.” Dealing with being persona non grata, in many eyes, has not been easy and Kyrgios has been aided by his fellow Australian Lleyton Hewitt, who has been helping him prepare for the last grand slam event of the year. “I think that’s been massive, to have his support, on the court and off the court, whenever I’ve needed to talk to him, he’s been there,” he said. “He’s taken time out for me … so I feel he’s been a massive influence. I went to the Bahamas for a couple of days with him. We got some good training out there. I’ve got a great team around me that’s doing a lot, just keeping me level‑headed and clear.” He will need a clear head if, as expected, the schedulers of the US Open put his first-round match – against Andy Murray, no less – in the night session on Tuesday. The New York crowd love charisma but also love a heckle and after a few beers, under the lights, things could get interesting. “I don’t mind when it is,” Kyrgios said. “I just have to be ready for it, day or night. It’s going to be fine. I think if I have a lot of positive energy out there, I’ll be fine.” Murray has been one of the few players calling for a bit of restraint when it comes to the Kyrgios-bashing and he has been something of a mentor for both Kyrgios and Kokkinakis. “He’s always been someone I can sort of talk to, if that’s sort of through Twitter or in person,” Kyrgios said. “He’s been someone that’s helped me. He’s always been nice to me. We’ve practised a couple of times as well. I’ve got a good relationship with him and he knows the journey. He’s been through some tough times as well. It’s a lot of ups and downs out there.” Beating Murray is unlikely to be easy. The world No3 has won their three matches, all in straight sets, including wins at the Australian Open and French Open this year. “He’s in form, probably playing the best tennis of his life,” Kyrgios said. “I know that he’s one of the best players in the world at the moment. I just have to go out there and play the right style of game and believe I can win. I know what his strengths are and know how to play it. I just have to execute it on the day.” 