In this excerpt from his new book, The Meaning of Cricket, Jon Hotten tells the story of an all-rounder and all-time great who came within a prayer of losing a leg By Jon Hotten for The Old Batsman , part of the Guardian Sport Network 
 Cricket’s first colossus, the prototype fast-bowling, big-hitting, crowd-pleasing all-rounder, was a man who did not just make a difficult game look easy – he made it look brutal and brilliant and new. They nicknamed Alfred Mynn “the Lion of Kent” and like the giant all-rounders that would follow him – Keith Miller, Imran Khan, Ian Botham, Andrew Flintoff – there was something about him that chimed with the public. They loved him unconditionally. Perhaps his size had something to do with that: he stood well over 6ft and was almost as wide, bull-chested and broad. He weighed 21 stone, a big fellow now but in the era in which he lived a giant. And perhaps it was his nature, religious and humble and brave. Certainly it was his cricket and in particular his bowling. Mynn took six steps up to the wicket and then whipped that giant right arm around his body and hurled the ball into the uneven turf. Over the course of a decade more than a thousand men fell to his bowling – and those are just the first-class wickets. Mynn would become the unbeatable king of a type of game that was not new but that would have its brief years in the sun. Just as Twenty20 cricket blazed into the pro game almost two hundred years later, the single wicket format was about to have its zeitgeist moment, filled with star players and built for gambling, a type of cricket that would burn quickly and brightly and enrapture the public as it did so. First Mynn had to recover from a heroic and disastrous innings in 1836 at Leicester when, sans leg-guards, he was struck repeatedly. He was despatched to London on the stage coach immediately after play. Once he arrived, the attending surgeon, Dr Lawrence, informed him that his leg was so badly damaged that it would be amputated at the hip. Mynn asked for a few minutes to say his prayers: surgery in 1836 was carried out without anaesthetic and was both terrifying and deadly. As Mynn prayed, Lawrence changed his mind and, although it took two years, Mynn eventually regained full use of the limb. Single-wicket was a way of pitting small teams of men against one another. A game could be made between two players, or teams of two or three. Rules were informal, with the participants able to negotiate the terms of the contest. A game between two players generally involved each man having a nominated number of fielders. A “bounds” was marked, usually horizontal with the batting crease, and no hit ending up behind it could be scored from (bounds were sometimes abandoned in matches with four or more fielders). Its other distinguishing feature was that the batsman was required to run to the bowler’s end and back to register a single.  Both competitors could be exhausted by the effort. In 1827 a farmer called Francis Trumper used his sheepdog to defeat a Two of Middlesex, the dog standing by his master as he ran up to the wicket before retrieving the ball “with such a wonderful quickness it was difficult to get a run even from a long hit”. It was a trick repeated by the innkeeper Silas Quartermain of Streatham Common, who trained his terrier to field for him. The writer EV Lucas told the apocryphal story of a single-wicket contest between two 80-year-olds. The first batted and made 12, and then watched in astonishment as his opponent staggered exhausted to the pavilion leaving his wicket to be bowled down. The batsman, also exhausted, bowled 13 wides in succession and lost.  Single-wicket was also a mano-a-mano challenge, and Alfred Mynn was the most imposing of opponents. He was physically dominant and earned his mighty nickname the Lion of Kent after the first of his victories over Tom Hills, the champion of the county. Facing Mynn presented almost every challenge. His bowling, always around the wicket, was rapid and parsimonious, and in single-wicket play even harder to attack because behind-the-stumps deflections went into the bounds and could not be scored from. His own batting, by contrast, was built on powerful straight hitting. Then there were the intangibles. The crowds loved Mynn, and he loved a crowd – away from cricket his hobby was amateur dramatics. He also needed the money. He was made bankrupt in 1845 and served a brief time in prison as a debtor. Some said he was still trying to pay medical bills incurred during his two years out injured.  The acknowledged champion of single-wicket was Mynn’s Kent team-mate and close friend Fuller Pilch, the most elegant batsman in the land. Such was the clamour for them to meet, a letter, purported to be from Mynn challenging Pilch, was printed by Bell’s Life magazine. It turned out to be a fake written by a desperate fan.  Pilch declined the contest with his friend and instead Mynn defeated James Dearman for the title Champion of England and a prize of £100. Mynn was utterly dominant, winning the first match by 123 runs to 11 and the second by an innings and 36 in front of huge crowds.  He went unchallenged for another eight years until the most famous single-wicket match of them all. His opponent was Nicholas Felix, another of Kent’s legendary five (“And with five such cricketers it was natural to win/As Felix, Wenman, Hillyer, Fuller Pilch and Alfred Mynn” ran a celebratory verse). “Felix” was actually a pseudonym. His given name was Nicholas Wanostrocht but, having inherited a school from his father, he felt that cricket might be seen as too frivolous a pursuit for a headmaster who was just 27 years old and perhaps lacking the gravitas to tease fees from the selective rich. His fame as a player meant that his identity soon became common knowledge, but Felix it was, and what a man he became: musician, painter, writer, scholar, inventor and sportsman.  Fuller Pilch was particularly enamoured of his ability to produce a tune from almost any instrument. His mind was restlessly creative. He invented the first bowling machine, which he christened “the Catapulta”, and the first batting gloves, which he made by sticking strips of India rubber along the fingers. He batted with rubber padding under his long socks too. His watercolours of other cricketers were widely admired, and as a writer he produced an early classic of the game, the rather beautifully titled Felix on the Bat, published in 1845. It had a subtitle too, “Being A Scientific Inquiry Into The Use Of The Cricket Bat”, and was one of the first pieces of writing to explore technique, or in Felix’s own vivid phrase “how to wield this mighty sceptre of delight”. He was already conscious of batting’s psychological dimension: “Defend until the excitement of your important position in the game shall subside.” And like Bob Woolmer and Tim Noakes centuries later, he was in thrall to the unlikeliness of it all too: “Astounding is not a term half powerful enough to describe the electrical rapidity with which the eye communicates to the nerves, and the nerves to the muscles the word of command.” The batting of Nicholas Felix was as quick and as nimble as his mind. He believed that the man on strike should be crouched and ready – “observe the first position in fencing – en garde!” A left-hander noted for the brilliance of his offside play, especially a rapier-like cut shot, Fuller Pilch rated him as the most attractive batsman in England, although not the safest. Stonewalling was not in his nature. When pitted against Alfred Mynn, in single-wicket, his other disadvantage was his bowling, underarm slow lobs.  The contest was set for 18 June 1846 at Lord’s, with two hundred guineas to the winner. Mynn, two years younger, almost a foot taller and twice the size of his opponent, was the betting favourite. Each man was given two fielders. The first innings were over quickly, Felix splintering his bat trying to get off the mark and being bowled next ball, and then Mynn caught and bowled for five – a rifle-crack of a straight drive that Felix held more in self-preservation than intent (“I only had time to put up my hand to save my life”).  Then came one of the most remarkable passages of cricket ever played, the thronging crowd caught up in the drama of a duel in which Mynn bowled 247 deliveries to Felix, who, with considerable skill, struck 175 of them. His frustration must have been huge as the vast majority of his hits fell in the bounds behind the wicket. In all he scored just three runs, plus one wide bowled by the apparently indefatigable giant who faced him. It was a battle of Felix’s will and Mynn’s power. Finally, as Felix must have felt his opponent was on the verge of weakening, Mynn got one through his defences to win by an innings and one run. The match had taken almost five hours, in which nine runs were scored.  The drama was such that a rematch was arranged immediately, set for 29 and 30 September in Bromley on open ground by the White Hart pub. The two stars of Kent once more drew large crowds. The gentry gathered in marquees erected especially for the match. Mynn won again, passing Felix’s total of 12 in his second innings. Even as he did so, the brief boom time of single wicket was ending. The expansion of the railways made it far easier to transport entire teams around the country and Mynn and Felix were enthusiastic members of one of the first all-England XIs, friends and team-mates now, rather than opponents The Meaning of Cricket by Jon Hotten, is published by Yellow Jersey Press 