 Battered, bloodied and somewhat bewildered, Andy Murray survived an extraordinary encounter with Germany's Tommy Haas to reach the second ATP Masters Series semi-final of his career with a 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 victory here in the Pacific Life Open. They put on a firework display and a brass band in the vast arena immediately after the match but it was somewhat superfluous. Twice Murray had resembled a Catherine wheel as he flipped and tumbled on the court, the first occasion so heavily that there were fears he had done serious damage to his ankle.  The second time might have been even more worrying as his foot caught the Hawk-Eye electronic wiring by the net post. But the deciding tie-break produced enough sparks on its own to satisfy the 14,000 crowd who gave both players a standing ovation at the end - and no wonder. Murray eventually won it by 10 points to 8 but only after he had saved two match points at 5-6 and 6-7. And by then Haas was suffering, too, having been momentarily seized by cramps in his thigh on this hot desert evening.  In truth, the 19-year-old Scot should have had the match wrapped up long before then. He led 4-2 in the third set and then, after losing serve, held four break points against the Haas delivery at 4-4. But a backhand that worked perfectly well for most of the match slipped out of gear on three of those opportunities and when he tried a silly drop shot to go 0-15 down when serving to stay in it at 5-6 and netted the second smash of the point at 3-3 in the tie-break, one could see the grey hairs sprouting on coach Brad Gilbert's closely cropped skull.  By the time Murray limped out of press conference there was no guarantee that he would be fit to play Novak Djokovic in a semi-final due to start in the early hours of this morning. Murray's first fall came when he was leading 2-0 in the second set. He looked agonised as he rolled on the court, clutching his ankle.  'I wouldn't say I was in agony but I had landed on my hip; scratched my knee pretty badly and felt like I'd done something to my ankle,' Murray explained. 'It was a combination of things and I was in a little bit of shock. I had hurt my ankle before at Queen's and I was concerned. But the snap I heard might have been the Velcro on the brace I wear.'  Apart from supervisor Gerry Armstrong, Haas was the first person at Murray's side. 'I practise with Tommy a lot in the off season and he was obviously pretty concerned which was really nice,' said Murray. 'They're the sort of things that make tennis a special sport when guys come over to show concern for your health.'  Murray said he felt a bit of a brat for taking such a long 'time out' to get the ankle strapped but it was the bruised hip that affected his game more as the match wore on. For most of the third set, Murray was reduced to slicing a lot of forehands because he had trouble running to his right-hand side. This only helped confuse Haas.  The German had been in fantastic form all week but his authority is immediately diminished by anyone clever enough to change the pace on him and disrupt his rhythm. Australian Open finalist Fernando Gonzalez had failed to do that the previous day and was steamrollered. Murray was never going to allow that to happen but he will hope for smoother and less painful passages into the later rounds of big events in the future. 