 Andy Murray has been rewarded for his recent good form by being seeded ninth for next week's Australian Open. His seeding reflects his current world ranking, which he achieved following victory at the season-opening Qatar Open last week. The British No1, who suffered a setback to his preparations when he was defeated 6-1, 6-4 by Marat Safin in his first match at the AAMI Classic in Kooyong, Melbourne on Wednesday, returned to form with a 6-7, 6-4, 6-2 over Ivan Ljubicic this morning in the second of his round robin matches. Murray was pleased with the way he coped in the warm temperatures. Indeed he believes that, after an intensive training regime over recent weeks, the searing heat of Melbourne will suit his game. "I don't mind it [the heat] too much," he revealed on his official website. "I've always quite liked playing in it. When it's hotter the guys tend to get more tired than me and make more unforced errors." "I just want to feel good going into the Aussie Open," he added. "It's about how you are going to get your game 100% ready for next week. I want to be in the best shape possible for the Masters season and the Grand Slams, because now I'm confident that I can go deep into the tournaments. A couple of years ago I wasn't that confident, I wasn't getting seeded in the tournaments and had never been deep in a Masters Series or a Slam before." Like the US and French Opens, the Australian Open organises its seedings to correlate with the world rankings. Roger Federer and Justine Henin are therefore top seeds in the men's and women's draws. Only two of the top 32 ranked men are not competing, Guillermo Canas and Tommy Haas, while the top 32 ranked women are all playing and are seeded accordingly. Murray has an excellent chance of improving on his fourth-round showing last year, while Federer is looking for his third straight title at Melbourne Park and his fourth overall. The World No1 has been laid low by a stomach bug which forced him out of the traditional lead-up event at Kooyong. Henin, who missed last year's Australian Open before winning the French and US Opens, will try and regain the title she won back in 2004. Defending women's champion Serena Williams is seeded seventh. 