 Tim Henman squeezed through to the second round of the French Open this afternoon after a typically nerve-shredding performance. The British number one finally triumphed in five tortuous sets against Frenchman Cyril Saulnier, 4-6, 4-6, 7-6, 6-4, 6-3, but it was anything but impressive.  But Andre Agassi, who Henman was on course to meet in the fourth round, fell to a stunning straight-sets defeat by Jerome Haehnel, who is ranked 271 in the world. That opens the draw for Henman, after he struggled through his first-round contest.  On paper Saulnier should hardly have proved a formidable opponent for the No9 seed.  He languished 70 places below him in the world rankings and the 28-year-old Frenchman had won just one previous tour-level match on clay and only two matches in a Grand Slam tournament.  Henman had maintained he had never felt more comfortable on clay, a surface he used to hate. He insisted that, this year, he could make the second week at Roland Garros for the the first time.  Yet it did not look that way. Henman could not have begun more sluggishly, losing his first service game of the match on Court Suzanne Lenglen as the errors, especially on the volley, sprayed from his racket.  There was precious little rhythm or tempo and, while he saved a set point in the ninth game, Saulnier served out in the next to take the first set. Henman was struggling to find the encouraging form which had seen him beat Andy Roddick at Indian Wells and reach the quarter-finals on the clay of Monte Carlo.  And when he lost the second set his prospects looked grim.  However, the Frenchman, whose favourite surface is hard court, had never won a match at Roland Garros - and the nearer he got to victory the more the nerves were bound to affect him.  So it proved. The third set went to a shoot-out with Henman at last having found some aggression and precision and he took the tie-break 7-2 with some aplomb.  Things were looking much brighter when he took the fourth, some much-needed control having been returned to his game.  But even then the inconsistency returned, Henman losing his first service game in the final set, though the match was to turn on two desperate missed smashes by Saulnier in the seventh game.  They cost him his service and effectively the match as Henman finished off much more convincingly than he had begun.  With Agassi having been toppled 6-4, 7-6 (7-4) 6-3 by France's Haehnel, Henman has never had a better chance of progressing deep into this tournament.  First, however, he will have to play much better than today. 