 Yesterday I had my first brush with internet porn. Click here for hot, sexy, teenage babes. Maybe so, but where do you click to get information about a tennis player's world ranking or find out a bit about her ATP Tour form? You wouldn't think that these were such hot subjects, but on the internet anything preceded by the name Anna Kournikova takes you on a Do Not Pass Go route to the seamier side of the world-wide web.  I wasn't that surprised. The Daily Mail and the Sun keep me up to date on Anna Hornikova's (sic) modelling career and, of course, I get all the stuff about her day job from the posh papers. But even the broadsheets have marketing departments with libidos and they've contributed their fair share to the column inches that have been written about this better-than-average tennis player over the past three years. Indeed, my mission for the Guardian this week was to attend a press briefing hosted by Berlei and Kournikova about the Importance of Support (if you know what I mean) in Sport.  I should say, in defence of my own addition to the column miles, that this wasn't just an excuse for this paper to run a full-page picture of the world No11. This was to be an inquiry into exactly what it is about the Moscow Minx that makes her worth the £3m that the sports bra manufacturers pay her annually to promote the "award-winning" Shock Absorber.  Kournikova's relationship with her sponsors is exceptional because it is all about sex and not at all about sport. This makes things easier. The relationship between market-eers and their mannequins is normally tense because their ambitions are not shared.  As fans we all know how invasive, corrupting and irritating sponsorship can be but for the personality it's a Faustian pact. On the face of it, the deal appears simple - cash in exchange for reflected glory. But the reality is all about compromise and that's not normally part of a top athlete's training schedule. Tiger Woods has had his difficulties promoting a golf ball that didn't go quite as far as another golf ball. The lawyers got twitchy but he got round that problem by promoting one ball while playing with another.  And the inevitable gulf between the brand and the sports star was brilliantly highlighted last week when the Hingis versus Tacchini story broke. Martina Hingis was paid £3.5m to promote and wear Tacchini footwear. But due to the fact they allegedly could not find a shoe to fit her she is suing them for £25m, claiming negligence, breach of contract and subsequent loss of earnings. Cinderella for Capitalists.  Of course, this was not the kind of publicity Tacchini were hoping for but at least we've heard of them now. If it hadn't been for this they could quite conceivably have paid out the £3.5m without anyone noticing.  Brand awareness is not a problem Berlei have with Anna "Only the ball should bounce" Kournikova - she's thrown to the hacks too often for that - but if sponsorship is about sales this arrangement too is equally misconceived.  Sponsorship works by association. Any young tennis player with ambition would surely want the inside track on the Hingis, Williams and Davenport bra of choice but why on earth would any right-thinking woman want to wear Anna's underwear? It has been made clear to the advertising world that women are not immune to the appeal of very sexy women - we all bought Wonderbras after all - but I'll let you into a secret, Berlei: women don't fancy Kournikova's teenage-babe look and none of the men I know buy sports bras.  Unfortunately I never got the chance to share my thoughts with Berlei or investigate the phenomenon of Kournikova. She skipped the press conference and indeed the tournament, choosing instead to prepare for Wimbledon in California rather than Eastbourne. Sensible girl.  The Daily Mail went big on the Tennis Player Pulls Out Of Minor Tournament story so her sponsors still got their money's worth. But if I were working in the Berlei legal department I might be feeling a little nervous. Those Shock Absorbers may do the job but they don't exactly look the part for a young sex symbol. How much do you think she could sue them for in lost earnings for underestimating the importance of cleavage? 