 Greg Rusedski's drugs case would get thrown out in a court of law, according to a leading drug expert.  The controversial assertion by Dr Werner Franke, the man who uncovered the East German drug scandal and fingered the notorious Dr Eckard Arbeit as a Stasi spy, comes just two weeks before Rusedski faces a tribunal in Montreal to examine his 5.5 nanogram reading for nandrolone.  According to Dr Franke, a leading molecular biologist from Heidelberg, there is no grey area between a reading of 2.0 and 5.0 nanograms. 'It is not a question of a grey area,' says Dr Franke. 'It is simply that no scientific evidence exists to prove that low levels of nandrolone are not produced naturally in the body as a result of extreme physical exertion or of what we eat. And the medical people in the sporting world who insist that 2.0 is the limit are among the same people who, as recently as 1997, were producing written medical papers stating that the body could not produce any nandrolone naturally. This has proved to be totally wrong.'  After a few minutes of conversation with the man who was hired by the German government to investigate the evil practices of Dr Arbeit and his fellow doctors during the days of the communist regime in East Germany, it is clear that Dr Franke has a problem with the attitudes of many of the world's sporting bodies over the doping issue.  'Whatever happens with the Rusedski tribunal, they should realise that any court of law would throw out the case against the player immediately,' says Dr Franke. 'But these political sporting bodies go on fixing arbitrary levels with no thought for the careers of the athletes. They are more interested in protecting the billion-dollar American pharmaceutical business than they are about the reputations of runners or tennis players. They show no mercy.'  Dr Franke insists that he can prove what he is saying about the miniscule levels of nandrolone that have caused so much trouble with Rusedski, Bohdan Ulihrach and half a dozen as yet unnamed members of the ATP tour. 'I would be able to prove that these low levels are not indicative of drug violation and that such levels could happen in the normal fluctuations of the body.'  Since unmasking the East German drug programme, Dr Franke has gone in to bat for footballers in Strasbourg and Berlin as well as Kenyan runners because he supports the view that is gaining credence among some members of the ATP hierarchy, namely that too much emphasis is being placed on catching the cheats and not enough on protecting the innocent. Considering Linford Christie was tested at 200 nanograms of nandrolone and the American athlete CJ Hunter at 2,000, Rusedski's 5.5 - just 0.5 above what even the hard liners admit might possibly be a grey area - it makes one wonder why the ATP's drug enforcers stamped it as a positive test, especially as it came less than two months after the tour offered amnesty to Ulihrach and others testing above 'normal' levels because of suspected contamination of supplement pills being handed out in the locker room.  Equally, there are those such as Todd Woodbridge, vice-president of the ATP Player Council, and Tony Pickard, who coached Rusedski briefly three years ago, who feel that Rusedski has done himself no favours by going public after rumours of a positive test began to circulate around the world's locker rooms.  'I just didn't think that was the way to go,' says Pickard. 'I think it has just created more of a media bonanza than was necessary. Look at the South American guys. A couple of them got caught; they served their sentence and are back on the tour. It may have been big news in Argentina but nothing like the worldwide rumpus that is going on with Greg.'  Pickard, so long associated with Stefan Edberg, also helped Petr Korda, the last high-profile player to be tested positive, for a brief period towards the end of the Czech's career.  'I have absolutely no idea how the problem with Petr came about,' says Pickard. 'All I know is that, during all my years with Stefan, we used to take what was on offer in the locker room as far as supplements like salt tablets were concerned and think nothing of it. And there was testing going on then.'  However Pickard is convinced that tennis a clean sport. 'How could it be otherwise?' asks Pickard. 'These guys are now tested up to 12 times a year, both at tournaments and out of competition. As Andre Agassi says, how can you escape that? I think the ATP and ITF have set in place a really good programme and the sport has to be classed as clean.'  Much of the credit for this must go to Richard Ings, the former tennis umpire, who is now head of the ATP drug policy. But even he was embarrassed by the farce last summer when the ATP wisely decided to come clean and admit that some of the supplements given to players by the tour trainers could have become contaminated in labs that someone like veteran trainer Bill Norris had been using for years.  'The fact is these labs used to produce just vitamin pills,' one trainer told me privately. 'But in recent years they have got into the business of producing stuff that is legal for the average person but is banned for athletes. And they don't take enough care about what tiny grains are left lying about on their work benches.'  It cannot be emphasised enough just how miniscule those grains are. And that in itself raises the question once again about the right levels at which to decide someone is a drug cheat. A reading of 2,000? Quite probably. But 5.5?  'That simply cannot make any difference,' says Dr Franke. 'It is so low it doesn't even matter.' All Rusedski can hope for now is that the independent tribunal will agree with the German doctor.  You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk, or mail the Observer direct at sport@observer.co.uk 