 Tim Henman, having been seeded No5 yesterday for the Wimbledon championships beginning on Monday, could face a quarter-final against Switzerland's Roger Federer, the reigning champion, or Andy Roddick of the United States, the world No2, when the draw is made at the All England Club today. Henman's first-match defeat at the Stella Artois championships last week cost him all chance of being seeded in the top four, with the two Argentines, Guillermo Coria and David Nalbandian, the 2002 Wimbledon runner-up, also seeded above him.  It is highly unlikely that Coria, whom Henman lost to in the semi-finals of the French Open, but who has never won a match at Wimbledon, will achieve his allotted place in the quarter-finals, and Henman may hope to be drawn in his quarter. Seeding history is against Henman winning the championship, with no No5 seed having taken the title in the Open era, which began in 1968.  Unlike the three other grand slam tournaments Wimbledon does not seed strictly according to the ATP current rankings and has devised a formula for the men whereby a player's recent record on grass is taken into account.  This was introduced three years ago after consultation between the All England Club and the men's governing body. Previously a seeding committee had decided where to place the leading players in the draw but this was eventually deemed to be too subjective, with a number of clay-court players boycotting Wimbledon four years ago, including Brazil's Gustavo Kuerten, who was the reigning French Open champion.  Kuerten is again missing, this time because of injury, as is Andre Agassi, who pulled out on Tuesday with hip trouble, and this year's French champion, Gaston Gaudio of Argentina, who has a foot problem.  The formula takes into account a player's current ranking points, and then adds on a percentage of points won on grass over the past two years. Last year Henman, still recovering from a shoulder operation in 2002, was lifted 19 places and seeded No10, reaching the last eight, where he was beaten by France's Sébastien Grosjean. Two years ago, when he reached the fourth of his semi-finals, he was seeded No4, the highest of his career.  More than anything Henman will hope to steer clear of Australia's Lleyton Hewitt, the 2002 champion and No7 seed, who has beaten the British No1 in all seven of their meetings.  The greatest beneficiary of the Wimbledon seeding formula this year is Australia's Mark Philippoussis, last year's runner-up, who has been bumped up eight places from his current No19 ranking.  The grass-court formula is not applied to the women, who are normally seeded strictly according to WTA rankings. However, this year there are special circumstances. The world's top two ranked players, Justine Henin-Hardenne and Kim Clijsters,are both missing, through illness and injury, while the Williamses, Serena and Venus, have an extended protected seeding from the WTA, the women's ruling body, because of past injuries, even though Venus has fallen to No8 in the world rankings and Serena to No10.  Serena, the reigning champion, has been seeded No1, with Venus, last year's runner-up, at No3. This means that the possibility of a second all-Williams final will depend on today's draw. Anastasia Myskina of Russia, the French Open champion, is seeded No2, with France's Amélie Mauresmo at No4.  Top seeds for Wimbledon    Men   1  Roger Federer (Switz)   2 Andy Roddick (US)   3 Guillermo Coria (Arg)   4 David Nalbandian (Arg)   5 Tim Henman (GB)   6  Juan Carlos Ferrero (Sp)   7  Lleyton Hewitt (Aus)   8  Rainer Schüttler (Ger)   9 Carlos Moya (Sp)   10  Sébastien Grosjean (Fr)   11 Mark Philippoussis (Aus)   12  Sjeng Schalken (Neth)   13  Paradorn Srichaphan (Thai)   14  Mardy Fish (US)   15  Nicolas Massu (Chile)   16  Jiri Novak (Czech Rep)   Women   1 Serena Williams (US)   2  Anastasia Myskina (Rus)   3  Venus Williams (US)   4  Amélie Mauresmo (Fr)   5  Lindsay Davenport (US)   6  Elena Dementieva (Rus)   7  Jennifer Capriati (US)   8  Svetlana Kuznetsova (Rus)   9 Paola Suarez (Arg)   10  Nadia Petrova (Rus)   11  Ai Sugiyama (Japan)   12  Vera Zvonareva (Rus)   13  Maria Sharapova (Rus)   14  Silvia Farina Elia (It)   15  Patty Schnyder (Switz)   16  Anna Smashnova-Pistolesi (Isr) 