 David Morgan, incoming president of the International Cricket Council, last night admitted that next summer's lucrative World Twenty20 championship could be moved from England if Peter Chingoka, the Zimbabwe Cricket Union's controversial chairman, is refused a visa to attend the competition. The prospect follows the removal of Malcolm Speed as chief executive of the ICC on Friday. He leaves office on Wednesday, after seven years in his post, as a direct result of his concerns over the handling of Zimbabwe's place in world cricket. The uncertainty over the World Twenty20 is a further indication of the disarray at the ICC. Yet, despite the prospect of millions of pounds of lost revenue for the ECB, England's best cricketers are set to earn as much as top Premier League footballers in 2009, according to Sean Morris, chief executive of the Professional Cricketers' Association. In September Chingoka was refused a visa to attend an employment tribunal for umpire Darrell Hair in London. A hardening of the British government's stance over the Robert Mugabe regime - Chingoka is a Mugabe man - is believed to have been the reason for the visa decision. Zimbabwe's cricketers are due to tour England early next season, before the World Twenty20 championship in June. If Chingoka is refused a visa the championship could be moved, with South Africa believed to be on standby.  'It could happen,' said Morgan. 'The chairman of Zimbabwe cricket, whoever that may be, will want to come to see the truly wonderful event. My own opinion is that it will go ahead and be staged in England.' But following the Hair tribunal and the debacle of last year's heavily criticised ICC World Cup in the West Indies - which Morgan admitted was 'not very good'- the spectre of Chingoka's visit is another problem for the beleaguered governing body of world cricket. Asked if it would not be better all round if Chingoka resigned, Morgan said: 'The position of the chairman of Zimbabwe cricket is for those who appoint that person in Zimbabwe. It is not an issue for the International Cricket Council.' Chingoka also applied for a visa in Harare earlier this year to attend the ICC annual conference. That request, according to Morgan, was 'neither granted nor refused', but did cause the venue for the ICC's June meeting to be switched from Lord's to Dubai. Chingoka's link to Mugabe was the main reason why Speed was forced out of office. Last month an ICC executive board meeting refused to publish an independent audit of the ZCU's finances by KPMG. The audit identified 'serious financial irregularities' that Speed wanted put before the ICC ethics committee, but acting president Ray Mali, an ally of Chingoka, ordered that the report be suppressed. Representatives of South Africa and India, who support the ZCU to secure political leverage within the ICC, insisted that no copies of the audit be allowed from the meeting. Asked why the ICC had refused to publish its own independent report Morgan said: 'The thinking behind it reflected the extremely difficult trading position that exists in Zimbabwe, and it was very clear that the report identified no particular individuals who were guilty of any financial mismanagement or malpractice. It's on that background that the board decided the report shouldn't be made public.'  Pressed further, Morgan added: 'There is parallel trading in Zimbabwe - everyone knows you need a shedload of cash to buy anything of significance.' Whatever the difficulties for cricket's politicians, the players are set for a bumper year in 2009. As well as their money from ECB central contracts, England's top cricketers can expect windfall bonuses from extra Twenty20 commitments. The ECB have signed a memorandum of agreement with the American billionaire Sir Allen Stanford - a keen backer of West Indies cricket - to stage a series of five Twenty20 matches between England and a 'Stanford Superstars' team in Antigua, with the winners receiving all of the $20million (around £10m) on offer for each match. There is also expected to be a four-team international tournament at Lord's, worth around $10m, as soon as the Ashes series finishes in September. After that there would be the second Champions League for Twenty20 in India, in October - and with English players likely to play 'club' Twenty20 for at least part of the 2009 Indian Premier League next April, some of them might appear in the October showdown. Kevin Pietersen, Andrew Flintoff, Paul Collingwood and those other England players whose ECB contracts are in the top band earn between £300,000 and £350,000 a year. Their Twenty20 money from Stanford, the IPL - should they be allowed to play - the World Championship, the Lord's tournament and potentially the champions league would probably treble their money. It is still unclear if the ECB will allow centrally contracted players to take part in the 2009 IPL. Star attractions could expect to at least match Australia's Andrew Symonds, whose $1.35m (£650,000) salary makes him its best-paid overseas player. The promise of the Stanford cash is likely, it is thought, to be employed by ECB chairman Giles Clarke to placate centrally contracted players if they are told not to sign on for the IPL. According to one agent who looks after many of England's best players, the IPL will be used to force up the value of central contracts. 'Negotiation takes place between the ECB and the PCA,' he told Observer Sport. 'So, of course, like in any walk of life, the IPL will be used as leverage. We are definitely looking at earnings above £1m at least next year.' 