 Between them the Williams sisters continue as the dominant force in women's tennis, as they underlined again here in their fifth final together of the last six grand slam events. But individually Serena - who beat Venus 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 - remains out on her own.  This was the younger sister's second successive Wimbledon title, having beaten Venus on both occasions, and her sixth slam title in all, with five of those victories coming against Venus. Each final has been different, and here was the most nakedly emotional in terms of Venus's stomach and groin injuries. Yet, apart from this year's Australian Open final in Melbourne, which Serena won at full throttle 7-6, 3-6 ,6-4, their matches have engendered little in the way of sustained crowd involvement.  Saturday's Centre Court was clearly unsure what to make of it all, and remained largely detached. What might have been a repeat of Melbourne ended the moment Venus's long-term stomach problem flared up again in her semi-final win over Belgium's Kim Clijsters - a win that ensured Serena retained her place as the world No1.  Clijsters, although without a slam title, is the youngest of the world's leading quartet - comprising the Williamses plus her compatriot, the French Open champion, Justine Henin-Hardenne - and has been creeping ever closer to Serena all year.  It is not too fanciful to view Venus's efforts to beat the world No2 Clijsters - and the victory's injury consequences - as the ultimate sacrifice, given the huge amount of endorsements at stake for the family. The Williams sisters play fewer tournaments than their rivals, so success at the slams is paramount.  There was genuine concern that Venus would not be able to play, recalling the infamous evening at Indian Wells two years ago when she pulled out of a semi-final against Serena 10 minutes before it was due to be televised live. It was at that time that the American supermarket tabloid the National Enquirer ran a story alleging their 2000 Wimbledon semi-final had been fixed in favour of Venus.  "Serena and I, we've been blamed for a lot of things that never even happened," said Venus after Saturday's final. "I had to at least show up and go on court. No one made any suggestions or put any pressure, because then it gets to be even more confusing. It was definitely a decision on my own."  If this implies that the sisters' careers were manipulated in their younger days, then it is no more than most have suspected, with their father Richard cast as the puppet master. He continues to coach his daughters, but his marriage to their mother Oracene has broken up and he was not on Centre Court to watch their 12th match against each other.  Serena, who now holds a 7-5 overall advantage (excluding the Indian Wells walkover), has won six on the trot, with Venus's most recent success coming in the 2001 US Open, the last of her four slam titles.  "The way I played, and the way Venus had been playing, she would have been the Wimbledon champion this year," said Serena. She quickly knocked down any suggestion that her sister, having lost again, might be thinking of quitting: "You've got to be kidding. I think Venus is on a mission to be the best."  That looks mission impossible as long as Serena is around, while the Belgians, who played each other in the French Open final, were rather brutally seen off here and may be hard-pressed to offer a viable challenge at next month's US Open, assuming Venus's injury has healed.  The other big-hitting Americans, Jennifer Capriati and Lindsay Davenport, have been almost completely overshadowed by the Williamses, while France's Amélie Mauresmo, injured before Wimbledon, has yet to conclusively prove she has conquered her nerves.  In the future, Russia's Maria Sharapova, only 16, may rise to the challenge, assuming her development does not come to a sudden halt once she hits the top 10, as has happened to some of her countrywomen in recent times. However, Sharapova appears to be the genuine article.  There were those, as always, who wondered about the authenticity of the Williams final, notably the opening set when Venus dramatically rose above her injuries, while Serena's approach was, on occasions, circumspect and well below her normal standard. Such is sport, and it would have been accepted as such, unequivocally, in any other circumstances other than an all-sisters affair.  Serena played her way through a poor patch, as she did against Capriati in the quarter-finals, while Venus gradually and inevitably succumbed to her injuries, the final reaching the conclusion that most had predicted and expected. 