 SAMPRAS: AN APOLOGY So Pete Sampras has lost a match at Wimbledon for the first time since 1996. For only the second time since 1992. On such a monumental day in tennis, you'd expect your on-the-ball The Day In Wimbledon column to devote lavish amounts of space to his five-set defeat at the hands of Swiss tiny tot Roger Federer. Sadly, completely out of habit, our bodies slumped into a boredom-induced coma the minute we knew Sampras was about to play, and so we missed the whole thing. Look, we feel worse than you do about all this, you know.  GORAN'S GONNA GET YA Greg's a gonner. Out in straight sets to Goran in the battle of serves and nerves. Ivanisevic admitted to having to conquer a few demons to convert one of his match points against Andy Roddick on Friday. And Greg, who calls court one his "voodoo court", had lost all his eight matches against the big Croat before today. Make that nine. "All along I've been saying I'd take things one match at a time," Greg revealed after going down 7-6 6-4 6-4. "But deep down I thought I had a chance of winning the championships."  Greg has clocked the fastest serve in the world at 149mph, but today he conceded that he came up against the best server in the world. The Croatian sent down 22 aces, prompting Rusedski at one stage to hand his racquet to a ball boy. And at a tournament where a pigeon flying down on the court can have the audience in hysterics, this jolly jape left them practically incontinent in their seats.  But Greg wasn't laughing. In fact he looked on the verge of tears - and with good reason. He managed to get just 48% of his first serves in. Goran the wildcard entry has plenty more aces up his sleeve, not to mention a split personality. "The two Gorans are best friends again," he said, while trying to surpress a violent facial tick.  ALARM CALLS So, no alarms and no surprises in the ladies singles today, which, on the plus side, means there are some tasty-looking quarter-finals for us to gorge on. Conchita Martinez plays Justine Henin, Kim Clijsters takes on Lindsay Davenport and Nathalie Tauziat's volleys go up against Venus William's violent strokeplay. But the match that jumps up, grabs you, and doesn't let go is Jennifer Capriati versus Serena Williams. These ladies have history. Last month Capriati destroyed Williams in the French Open. And Williams is vowing revenge. ""The last time I didn't play well, I think it was someone impostering [that means impersonating, we think] me," she blithered after bludgeoning past Bulgaria's Magdalena Maleeva 6-1 6-2. This crazy split-personality thing is clearly catching. "I was hitting a lot of errors and going crazy." That's not you, is it, Goran? "This time I just need to make sure I'm out there performing and I'm not making all those errors, playing the way Serena Williams knows how to play." And Serena certainly can play; she's lost just 11 games in four matches at Wimbledon. But Capriati, who thumped Sandrine Testud 6-1 6-2 today is confident too, telling anyone who would listen: "This was the best I have played in the tournament yet. I just have confidence - just winning matches over and over." Expect fireworks when the two girls get it on tomorrow, then. WHAT HAPPENED ON COURT? Seeds through: Men - Pat Rafter (3), Marat Safin (4), Thomas Enqvist (10). Women - Venus Williams (2), Lindsay Davenport (3), Jennifer Capriati (4), Serena Williams (5), Kim Clijsters (7), Justine Henin (8), Nathalie Tauziat (9), Conchita Martinez (19). Seeds knocked out: Men -  Pete Sampras (1), Arnaud Clement (13). Women -  Magdalena Maleeva (12), Jelena Dokic (14), Sandrine Testud (15), Meghanne Shaughnessy (17), Anke Huber (18), Tamarine Tanasugarn (31). Brit watch:  Greg crashed out in straight sets to Goran Ivanisevic, 7-6, 6-4, 6-4. Timofee Henman is playing Todd Martin on centre court. Shock of the day: Roger Federer outgunning Pistol Pete. It was Sampras's first loss at Wimbledon since 1996. Fastest serve: Men -  Greg Rusedski 135mph. Women - Venus Williams 118mph. QUOTE OF THE DAY "I usually bring my dress ahead of time because I know I'm going to win an event. This one is more stylish, more funky, more trendy. It's not as bally." - You shall go to the ball. Serena Williams suffers a crisis of confidence, bless her.  TABLOID WATCH With Barbara 'Babsi' Schett knocked out, there was a low flesh count in today's tabloids. For a change, there was something for the ladies, with a bare-chested Goran Ivanisevic announcing he would bash Greg Rusedski out of the tournament. In turn, Rusedski tried to invoke the spirit of the Lions, telling the Sun in an exclusive interview: "I caught highlights of the Lions' win over Australia and they were magnificent. Now I will have to come up with the same commitment and bravery." He couldn't, of course. FABULOUS FACTS Jimmy Connors (USA) was seeded a record 17 times between 1973 and 1989 in the Gentlemen's Singles Championship. Bjorn Borg won 41 consecutive matches at Wimbledon between 1975 and 1981. Virginia Wade competed in a record 26 consecutive Championships.  ASTROLOGY WITH LLEYTON HEWITT "Sun Square Uranus Orb: 05Á17' "You've sown your wild oats - and how! Your intellectual development was a good deal in advance of your emotional development, and as a result you had ideas, notions, theories, of independence and of human relations which you put into practice, considerably to the despair of your elders. You're a liberal in every way, with advanced social, political, and personal ideas." For more wild astrological insights from the liberal Australian check out his 