 Tim Henman, worried about keeping enough ranking points to avoid dropping below the cut-off point for the Masters Series events, has taken a wild card into next week's Dubai Open. Henman missed Marseille last week because of his bad back, lost in the second round in Rotterdam on Thursday, and knows that if he drops out of the top 50 there are certain events for which he might then have to qualify. "Dubai is an opportunity," claimed Henman, still relentlessly positive despite a situation in which he is certain to lose the British No1 ranking for the first time since 1999 and far from sure of maintaining a permanent slot on the main tour. "Considering how I felt just before Marseille, I'm delighted to have competed in Rotterdam. The back is not perfect but if I can keep putting myself in similar situations I'm confident I'll win more matches than I'll lose, and then it is a question of hard work to get back to where I want to be." Unfortunately Henman has lost in the first round in the Gulf twice in the last three years on what can be surprisingly slow courts, and has never been beyond the quarter-finals. But he can no longer afford to be picky. Henman is almost certain to lose his title as Britain's top player to Andy Murray, who overcame Rik De Voest 7-6, 3-6, 7-5 in the second round of the Regions Morgan Keegan Championships in Memphis on Thursday. Murray, who began the week ranked 47th in the world, seven places behind Henman, is set to take over as the British No1 when the revised rankings are published on Monday. It has been a rapid rise since he shot to prominence at Wimbledon last year. Then he lost in five sets to David Nalbandian having been two sets up on Centre Court. Questions have been raised about Murray's fitness but he said: "I feel much fitter and stronger now. I got tired in my match at Wimbledon. But I thought I was the fresher of the two at the end of the match [against De Voest]." When Murray raced into a 4-0 lead against South Africa's De Voest, he looked set to move quickly into the quarter-finals. But a double-fault from the 18-year-old Scot enabled De Voest to battle back and the match eventually stretched to 2½ hours. "It was very tough," said Murray. "I went 4-0 up and then I lost my concentration a little bit. When I let him back in the first set he got a bit more confidence. I managed to get through the first set after having a lot of chances and then I broke him in the first game of the second." Arvind Parmar's run in Rotterdam ended yesterday with a quarter-final defeat to Christophe Rochus in straight sets. The British No5 had been his country's last man standing following Henman's exit but could not advance to the final four of an ATP event for the first time as the tireless Rochus proved too good, eventually winning 6-3, 6-3. Amélie Mauresmo cannot become the world No1 again this week after her 16-match unbeaten run ended with a 7-6, 6-4 quarter-final loss to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the Dubai Open yesterday. With Kim Clijsters pulling out of Indian Wells the week after next, Mauresmo should regain the No1 position then. 