 Compared with the grand-operatic five-set finals of the two previous years, Rafael Nadal's 6-2, 6-2 victory over Chile's Fernando González in the Foro Italico yesterday was decidedly Eurovision Song Contest. Nevertheless the 20-year-old Spaniard became the first player to win the Italian title, inaugurated in 1930, for three successive years and underlined his position, if it were needed, as the world's leading clay-court player. He is not so much the king of clay as the divine emperor. This period of Nadal dominance will, in years to come, be looked back on in awe. It was his 77th consecutive clay-court win, stretching back to April 2005, during which time he has won 13 titles, including two French Open crowns. He seems unstoppable on this surface, although Russia's Nikolay Davydenko pushed him harder than most in Saturday's semi-final before Nadal prevailed 7-6, 6-7, 6-4. With Roland Garros barely two weeks away, it seems inconceivable, injury apart, that the brilliant young Spaniard will not successfully defend his title in Paris, particularly as Roger Federer, the world No1, is suffering from a crisis of self-doubt that was nowhere on the radar when he won his 10th grand-slam title in Melbourne at the beginning of the year. His third-round 6-2, 6-4 defeat by Italy's Filippo Volandri on Thursday was inept, with the Swiss seeming unable to raise his game against an inspired but essentially ordinary clay-court practitioner. The fallout, and this was an equal surprise, came when he dispensed with the services of his coach, Tony Roche, on Saturday. Federer has worked with the 61-year-old Australian, who coached Ivan Lendl and Pat Rafter, on a part-time basis since 2005. During their partnership Federer won six of his 10 grand-slam crowns and maintained his place on top of the world rankings. The speculation yesterday was he might try to hire another Australian, Darren Cahill, the former coach of Lleyton Hewitt and Andre Agassi. After winning the Australian Open, and his 47th career title in Dubai, Federer was twice beaten on the US hard courts by Guillermo Cañas in the spring and was defeated with some ease by Nadal in the Monte Carlo Masters final. Federer had asked Roche to be with him throughout the European clay-court season but he will be in Hamburg from today on his own. After winning his first major at Wimbledon in 2003 under Peter Lundgren's guidance, now Britain's Davis Cup coach, Federer sacked the Swede less than six months later, so he is used to making abrupt decisions. He went on to lift three more majors in 2004 when he opted to go it alone. But the split is strangely timed, with Federer pressing to win the French Open to become only the third man, after the American Don Budge and Australian Rod Laver, to hold all four majors at the same time and also to become only the sixth player to win all four majors. Not that it seems likely that Federer or anyone else could currently beat Nadal. González, who knocked out Volandri on Saturday, believed he might have the solution. The Chilean reached this year's Australian Open final and, under the American coach Larry Stefanki, formerly with Tim Henman, has added control to his immense hitting and serving. It was essential González did everything as near to perfection in order to sow a little self-doubt in the mind of Nadal. Instead he immediately dropped his serve and never properly found his rhythm after that. Few manage to find the comfort zone against Nadal, who hits the ball with such fierce spin that it rears up off the court like a spitting cobra. The only time Nadal showed any consternation was when he inadvertently hit a return into the crowd, smacking a spectator in the face. He went over to see if she was all right and was warmly applauded. Thereafter all the pain belonged to González. 