 In early June, when I pointed out to Tim Henman that not many fathers had won Wimbledon - Pat Cash was the last 15 years ago - he gave one of his slow, side-of-the-mouth smiles and said: 'I better win it this year then, hadn't I?' He didn't, and now he's a dad, and those who have always felt that he's more of a pram pusher than a trophy lifter are convinced that baby Rose is the distraction his tennis career doesn't need.  Those of us keeping an open mind have had our view tested by Henman's unavailing attempt to make it to the Tennis Masters Cup, the season-ending tournament that rewards, richly, the year's eight most consistent players. Henman was right up there with the leaders trying to make it to the TMC, which starts in Shanghai tomorrow week, until he fell away in the closing days. His last chance disappeared here at the Paris Masters when he gave a distracted performance to lose in straight sets to France's Nicolas Escude. Cue a rapid retreat from the French capital for wakeful nights back in Barnes. While Cash probably regarded the first wail from the cot as a signal to head for the practice courts, Henman's response seems to have been more paternal - at least that is the obvious inference from his admission that he has been unable to concentrate fully on his tennis since the birth two weeks ago. Such fatherliness is all very admirable, but those who go on winning are the ones who reckon their new responsibilities do not take precedence over the old one of working on their games.  It is hard not to be distracted. Few of the recent great champions have won grand slams after becoming fathers, including father of six John McEnroe, who was still only 27 when his first child was born in 1986 but never even made it to the final of a slam after that.  This then is the downside, as far as his tennis is concerned, of Henman's starting a family. But an equally compelling case for its beneficial effects could be constructed and to blame his defeat here in Paris on his newborn daughter is to overlook a number of other factors, including the damaged right shoulder that has been troubling him since soon after Wimbledon.  In another meeting just over a month ago, Henman bridled at my suggestion that his shoulder might represent a long-term threat to his career. But before he left Paris on Thursday he was talking about not being fit for the start of 2003.  'If it means missing the Australian Open [which starts in January], then I've got to do that because there's no point in just trying to play when it's not right.'  Damaged shoulders have recently done for the careers of Goran Ivanisevic and Pat Rafter, and Henman, 28, who says he wants to be a contender at at least four more Wimbledons, must have niggling worries that his own might be in danger.  He said it was his serve that worried him. 'When my shoulder is high, that's when it becomes pretty sore. And the more you do it through a match, it deteriorates.'  In the end, Henman missed out on Shanghai by just one place. Although he finished eighth in the Champions Race - behind Lleyton Hewitt, Andre Agassi, Marat Safin, Juan Carlos Ferrero, Carlos Moya, Roger Federer and Jiri Novak - the last berth went to the French Open winner Albert Costa because he was the highest placed of the grand slam winners who didn't qualify automatically.  Safin achieved his qualification despite not having won a tournament all year, although he has the chance to put that right today after beating Moya 7-5 7-6 (6-4) yesterday in the Paris Masters semi-finals. Safin served beautifully, holding serve throughout and being taken to deuce only once, before wrapping up victory on his second match point. 