 From the moment that Wimbledon announced, belatedly, that it was adding singles competitions to the wheelchair events, Scotland’s Gordon Reid was a man on a mission. On Sunday he completed that mission by becoming the Wimbledon champion. His 6-1, 6-4 win over Stefan Olsson of Sweden gave him a second grand slam singles title in as many days, to add to the doubles title he won on Saturday. “It’s incredible,” Reid said. “Still feels like a bit of a dream, doesn’t feel real, to be honest, right now. A Wimbledon title is always going to be unbelievable, but to be the first ever in the singles event, I’m never going to forget that.” The 24-year-old Reid won his first Australian Open title in January, after which he immediately set his sights on Wimbledon. For years, the All England Club said the grass was too dangerous for the wheelchair players but it was an excuse that could only last so long and the performances of all the players over the past week have been a testament to their athleticism. Under cloudy and slightly menacing skies, Reid romped through the first set against the 29-year-old Olsson, whose only previous grand slam singles final came at the French Open in 2010. The pair were forced off for a short break by some rain early in the second set but one break gave Reid the chance to serve it out. It was only then that the first nerves showed as Reid did well to even connect with the ball on his first match point. His second, however, was much more solid and he clinched a well-deserved victory. “Just the moment got to me a little bit,” Reid said of the first attempt to close it out. “Yeah, I let a little bit of doubt creep into my mind. Arm got a little bit tense. Didn’t go very fast through either of those serves. But I just cleared my head, pushed back up for the second one, just picked my spot and hit it well. The rest is history.” Reid, who was confined to a wheelchair 12 years ago after contracting Transverse Myelitis, a neurological condition affecting the spine, said he hoped his victory, which was shown live on BBC2, would inspire young boys and girls with disabilities to get into sport. “This sport helped me so much in my recovery from my condition [and with] my life in general,” he said. “If this can help in some way, inspire more people, get more people playing, if it helps some other kids the same way it helped me, then that’s just as special to me as winning the title.” Now he will prepare for a tilt at the Olympic gold medal in Rio next month, “It’s not going to be easy,” he said. “Everyone has been preparing for this for a long time and it’s a big draw. I will just try to have the same mindset as this week, go out there, trust myself, trust my game, just focus on the performance and let the results take care of themselves.” There was more celebration for Britain when Jordanne Whiley won the women’s doubles title, partnering Yui Kamiji of Japan to beat the No2 seeds Jiske Griffioen and Aniek van Koot of the Netherlands 6-2, 6-2, for their third straight Wimbledon crown. 