 Martina Hingis yesterday blamed an alleged stalker for an astonishing first-round defeat at Wimbledon.  The 20-year-old Swiss player told a Miami court that her shock elimination in 1999, when she was top seed, was mainly due to Dubravko Rajcevic who, it is claimed, stalked her for more than a year. That Wimbledon upset at the time was put down to her temporary split with her mother and closest confidante Melanie. But of that defeat by Jelena Djokic, the Wimbledon teenage sensation that summer, Hingis said yesterday: "I never do that. I never did in a grand slam tournament until that time. Part of it was because of him."   The 46-year-old Rajcevic, a Croatian-born naval engineer and now an Australian citizen, is charged with one count of stalking and three of trespassing at last year's Ericsson Open in Key Biscayne, Florida. He faces up to a year in jail if convicted on all counts.   Hingis told the court how she had been pursued with love letters, flowers and phone calls from Rajcevic and was forced to confront him in an attempt to end all contact.  "I told him he should go away and get out of my life," Hingis said, explaining that she spoke to Rajcevic through the gate of her Swiss home only weeks before that fateful Wimbledon. She was then 18.   "He didn't believe Mario [Widmer, her manager] that I didn't want to tell him to stop showing up, that I didn't love him, that I didn't want to do anything with him," Hingis said. "He told me we were engaged. He was looking at me, smiling at me."  Yesterday, Rajcevic often laughed and shook his head as Hingis spoke. He was warned by the judge that he would be removed from the courtroom if he was not silent after making a series of outbursts and trying to engage Hingis in conversation.  "It must be love," Rajcevic at one point blurted out as she said that he had not stopped ringing the doorbell at her Swiss home.  Later, said Hingis, "I could not walk freely." She feared "the obsession and love for me might turn into hate and aggressiveness towards me, and that is what I am scared of most". Rajcevic claims he wanted to start a romantic relationship and did not threaten Hingis. His lawyer Frank Abrams said: "I will be defending a man's right to love a woman and to pursue the object of his affection as a legitimate and non-malicious purpose in this world."  Rajcevic has spent the last year in custody in Miami after his arrest because he cannot pay the bail of £1.4m. 