 Martina Navratilova, 47, will play singles at this month's French Open, the first time at a grand slam event since she lost the Wimbledon final against Spain's Conchita Martinez 10 years ago. And she has not ruled out the possibility of playing singles at Wimbledon as well, although the All England Club may be a little more reluctant to offer her a wild card. The organisers of the French Open, a title she won in 1982 and 1984, did not hesitate to allow her access into the main draw. "The request came from her, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of her last victory and 10 years after her last appearance," said Stéphane Simian, the French Open sports director.  "It seemed to us that, given her past record and her current level of play, since she's still competitive in doubles, she deserved a wild card. We had no hesitation. It could have been a problem if she had somebody else's place but it was not the case."  The Czech-born American made her singles comeback, after almost a decade, last month at Amelia Island when she lost to the 23-year-old Venezuelan, Milagros Sequera. Navratilova, who holds 167 singles titles, more than any player in history, lost her second match too, against Amy Frazier of the United States in the first round at Charleston the next week.  Overall she has won 18 grand slam singles titles and 58 grand slam titles, including doubles and mixed doubles, placing her only four tournament victories behind the all-time record holder, Margaret Smith of Australia.  Navratilova defected to the US in 1978, first won Wimbledon in 1978 and holds the record for women's singles titles at the All England Club with nine. She also won the US Open four times and the Australian Open three times.  By claiming her 58th grand slam title at Wimbledon in 2003, Navratilova broke her own record as the oldest champion at one of the top four major events. Aged 46 years and 261 days, she eclipsed the mark she set when she lifted the Australian Open mixed crown, also with India's Leander Paes, in January last year. 