 Roger Federer will meet Rafael Nadal in tomorrow's men's singles final after the pair won through their semi-finals against ailing opponents at Wimbledon today. The world No1 and top seed was not at his best against Richard Gasquet, but the Frenchman was visibly struggling with an ankle problem later in the match, enabling Federer to close out a 7-5, 6-3, 6-4 success. Nadal, meanwhile, overcame Novak Djokovic after the Serbian was forced to retire midway through the third set because of a particularly nasty blister on his left foot. At first, Gasquet showed no ill-effects of last night's thrilling five-set victory over third seed Andy Roddick. Seeking to keep alive his bid for a record-equalling fifth straight title, Federer had to save three break points to keep his nose in front in bright sunshine on Centre Court. But the 25-year-old raised his game when it mattered most to break Gasquet in the 12th game of the set to take it 7-5. Watched by Bjorn Borg, the man whose record he is aiming to equal, Federer clearly took heart from that hard-fought success and broke Gasquet early in the second set for a 2-0 lead. He did it in some style too, producing two running forehand winners down the line coming either side of another winner cross court which had Gasquet simply shaking his head in disbelief. When he held serve to love in the next game Federer had won 16 of the last 18 points and it was beginning to look ominous for his 21-year-old opponent, making his debut in a grand slam semi-final. A child prodigy in his native France, Gasquet had come back from two sets to love and 4-2 down against Roddick late last night, and there were welcome occasional glimpses of the stunning backhand passes with which he destroyed the former US Open champion. Federer remained secure on serve however, closing out the set 6-3 to take a two sets to love lead. As if things were not bleak enough for Gasquet, the 12th seed then called for a medical time-out after the second set to receive treatment on his left ankle. It did not appear initially appear to be too serious, especially when he produced a running forehand winner which had Federer raising his eyes skyward in disbelief, but the Swiss star responded with six aces in his next two service games to remain on level terms at 3-3. A moment of pure class, a sublime backhand passing shot down the line, then gave Federer the vital break of serve. Gasquet, visibly struggling now, held serve to force Federer to serve out for the match and he duly obliged to seal victory in one hour and 44 minutes. Federer is now ready to equal the record of Bjorn Borg and claim his fifth consecutive Wimbledon title. "Never, ever - and I think the same for him - did we think we were going to win Wimbledon so many times," said Federer of Borg, who was watching from the Royal Box today. "Now I'm in the position to equal his great record. I saw him sitting there today, thank God only in the second set so I could concentrate on the first set first. "It is tricky when you see him sitting there because he is a living legend. It is a boost, but it can also be a negative thing if you put too much pressure on yourself. In the end you've got to block it out, whoever is sitting there. I have so much respect for him that it is great that he's here. I hope I can do the job tomorrow." Nadal, meanwhile, must have felt he was overdue some luck en route to his second final at SW19, in the wake of his five-set, rain-affected battles earlier in the week. That good fortune duly arrived on Court One, when he was spared another potential epic against fourth seed Djokovic, who was forced to retire at 4-1 down in the third set. Djokovic, feeling the effects of his five-hour win over Marcos Baghdatis yesterday, gallantly took the first set 6-3. But after hobbling through a second set which Nadal won 6-1, the premature ending was inevitable. "I'm sorry for him because it's tough getting the semi-finals playing good tennis, and then to get a match like yesterday and have to retire, that is tough for everyone," said Nadal. "I don't feel bad. I've played two tough matches in five sets, and the other ones I have won in three sets. I lost a set today but I only had to play three sets, so I feel good physically for tomorrow." Djokovic explained a blister sustained during his win over Baghdatis had become infected, and painful enough to make him seriously consider whether to take to the court at all. "I didn't sleep during the night because there was a lot of bleeding and I was barely walking this morning," he said. "I wanted to avoid forcing the injury and making it more serious for the future. It was not only that. It was also my back which was a problem over the last couple of days and basically all my body. I'm really exhausted. Everybody is human and it's natural to feel like that." 