 Top seed Maria Sharapova battled through to the semi-finals of the Australian Open and a match-up with Kim Clijsters after overcoming Russian Anna Chakvetadze at Melbourne Park. Sharapova was expected to down the 12th seed with clinical ease in the early quarter-final on the Rod Laver Arena but was made to fight all the way for a 7-6 (7-5), 7-5 win. Chakvetadze, who despatched Patty Schnyder and Jelena Kostanic Tosic on her way to the quarters, proved to be a worthy adversary. In a first set that dragged on for 59 minutes, both players struggled to hold their own service as unforced errors hampered their efforts. Following two breaks each the set eventually came down to a deciding tiebreaker and again errors were prevalent from both players. Finally Sharapova was able to edge ahead and claim the tiebreaker on the back of two mistakes from Chakvetadze. In much the same fashion as the first set, both players again succumbed to early breaks in the second. Sharapova then broke Chakvetadze in the ninth game but faltered serving for the match, and then missed her match point chance on her compatriot's next serve. Chakvetadze eventually relented, crashing the ball into the net in her next service game, and on Sharapova's third match point. Heading into her third semi-final appearance in a row at Melbourne Park, Sharapova said she was satisfied with her performance. "I was just very competitive. Against a girl like that, that gets a lot of balls back, it's just a matter of who can be a little bit smarter, who can get an extra ball back, who is a little tougher," she said. "I thought I did the job really well today. Overall I thought it was a bit scratchy. First set I was down a break, [but] I get back in the groove." Clijsters had to claw her way back from a set down to overcome three-time former champion Martina Hingis 3-6, 6-4, 6-3. Despite a mixed performance, which was in stark contrast to her previous four romps on route to the quarters, Clijsters eventually muscled her way back into the contest before taking the match. Hitting 23 unforced errors to Hingis's seven, Clijsters crashed in the first set to the Swiss after having her service broken three times in just 35 minutes. Casting aside her early setback, the tournament's fourth seed made a big improvement early in the second as she began to find the form that had previously eluded her. Cantering to a 5-2 lead on the back of some strong winners and as Hingis began to falter, the Belgian looked set to seal the win in no time. However, the costly errors that had subsided began to crop up again as Hingis pegged the score back to 5-4. This resistance proved to be short-lived, however, as Clijsters upped the tempo, held off a break point on her own serve and then took the set. Clearly frustrated at relinquishing her grip on the match, Hingis started the final set in emphatic fashion with a break of her opponent's opening service game. But it was not to be her day as Clijsters bounced back with three service breaks to put an abrupt end to the comeback queen's title aspirations. Despite falling in the quarter-finals at the Australian Open for the second consecutive year, Hingis said after the match that she was pleased with how she played. "I had the best chances today to beat her from all the matches we've played in the past," she said. "Confidence-wise she definitely had the edge. But this time I definitely stepped it up. In the beginning we both were very nervous. But I came out stronger and I had my chances today. It was definitely disappointing. I felt like I was winning the match and I had all the things in my hands. But she's a great fighter. It was a great match." Clijsters admitted she was still trying to work out how she won the match. "I think the only two things that I did well today was that I fought and I tried," she said. "I think those are the two things that made me play a little bit better when I had to, when it was most important. That's the only thing you can do when you're not hitting the ball well and you feel like whatever you're trying is not really going your way. "That's the only thing you can do. Hopefully [it] turns it around. Luckily for me, it did." Serena Williams and and Nicole Vaidisova will contest the other semi-final. Women's quarter-finals (4) Kim Clijsters (Bel) bt (6) Martina Hingis (Swi) 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 (1) Maria Sharapova (Rus) bt (12) Anna Chakvetadze (Rus) 7-6 (7-5) 7-5 