 Venus Williams defied the curse of Court Two for the second time in seven days to reach the fourth round of the women's singles, where she will meet Maria Sharapova. The three-times former champion had to come from behind on the "champions graveyard" in her first-round match against Russia's Alla Kudryavtseva and was on the brink again today before securing a 6-2, 3-6, 7-5 win over Akiko Morigami. The Japanese player appeared to lose her nerve serving for the match at 5-3, and Williams took full advantage despite steady drizzle which turned into a mini-downpour seconds after she clinched victory. Morigami, the world No71 who has never been past the third round, produced a love service game when the match resumed an hour later than scheduled. Williams, the champion in 2000, 2001 and 2005, had lost her grip on the match after encountering problems with her serve on Saturday and the omens were not good when she came up with four double faults in her opening service game today. She saved six set points before finally holding, and then broke her Japanese opponent to get the score back to 3-5. However, her woes continued in the next game in which she came up with four more double faults and, although she saved three more set points, Morigami broke for a third time to take the set 6-3 and level the match. Morigami, who took the American to three sets in their first-ever meeting in Memphis earlier this year, then came from 0-40 down to hold serve in the fifth game of the deciding set. It was then Williams's turn to come from 0-40 down on her own serve and she held on with the aid of a second 120mph serve. The set went with serve until the eighth game when a lucky net cord gave Morigami a break point and Williams followed it with a 14th double fault of the match. Serving for the match amid rising tension at 5-3, Morigami choked and was broken to love. One game later she dropped her serve again to trail 5-6. With rain falling steadily, Williams came from 15-40 down to clinch victory after two hours and five minutes. "When it was time, I did what it took," said Williams. "I definitely would like to do what it takes earlier. But I think on the other hand, that kind of competition is invaluable in this kind of tournament. So either way it's good for me." On Centre Court, top seed Justine Henin progressed to the last eight with an easy straight sets win over Patty Schnyder. Bidding for her first Wimbledon crown, the Belgian is likely to face a sterner test against either Serena Williams or Daniela Hantuchova in the quarter-finals. Henin roared into a 3-0 lead over the Swiss player before many spectators had taken their seats and took the first set in 31 minutes. She then broke Schnyder in the third game of the second set to take what would prove to be a match-winning advantage. After going a double-break up, Henin served out to take the tie 6-2, 6-2 in 56 minutes. "Even if it looks simple to you, my first four matches have still been all the nerves and everything," Henin insisted afterwards. "It's still the pressure of a grand slam. I've done my job perfectly up to now. I've had a lot of matches in the last few weeks which is good and gives confidence. I'm really concerned to fight hard on every point." There was a shock on Court Three where 12th seed Elena Dementieva was beaten by Austria's Tamira Paszek in their delayed third-round match. The Russian took the first set but Paszek, the world No54, stormed back to win the match 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. Elsewhere Svetlana Kuznetsova, Ana Ivanovic and Nicole Vaidisova all completed straight-sets wins in their matches carried over from Saturday, beating Agnieska Radwanska, Aravane Rezai and Victoria Azarenka respectively. 