 Three-time Wimbledon champion Venus Williams came back from the brink of defeat to move into the second round. Williams, who suffered a surprise third-round defeat by Jelena Jankovic last year, was a set and a break down to Russian teenager Alla Kudryavtseva before fighting back to claim a 2-6, 6-3, 7-5 win. The 19-year-old Kudryavtseva produced some inspired tennis in a first-round match marred by a series of disputed line calls and was just two points away from pulling off a stunning victory on her Wimbledon debut. Williams, whose sister Serena triumphed on the same court in her opening match 24 hours earlier, rescued a potentially perilous position with a 119mph serve and broke her inexperienced opponent in the 12th game of the deciding set to seal the win. As the three-time former champion breathed a huge sigh of relief, Kudryavtseva left the court in tears. Earlier, Yorkshire's Katie O'Brien became the first British player to reach the second round with a hard-fought victory over Germany's Sandra Kloesel. It was the British No1's first victory at the All England Club in four attempts as she triumphed 6-3, 7-5 on Court 17. O'Brien, 21, took the opening set in 45 minutes but looked like being pegged back when Kloesel, the world No 104, turned an early break in the second into a 5-3 lead. Kloesel failed to serve out for the set, however, losing her serve twice in succession as O'Brien won the last four games. Fellow Briton Elena Baltacha did not fare so well, however, as she went down 6-7, 6-3, 6-2 to 19th seed Katarina Srebotnik on Court Three. It was a gutsy display as the Kiev-born Scot saved 18 out of 21 break points, but she eventually paid the price for the 24 unforced errors she produced. On Centre Court, reigning champion Amélie Mauresmo easily defeated the ragged challenge of young American Jamea Jackson, taking only 63 minutes to win their first-round clash 6-1, 6-3. Mauresmo, the No4 seed, produced a mixture of clinical and creative shots to shatter the ambitions of her plucky but totally outclassed rival. Jackson looked ruggedly determined at the start and mounted a brave fightback at the end after the threat of a total whitewash, but Mauresmo's class soon had her in trouble. Mauresmo showed no signs of a thigh injury which has been bothering her and even though Jackson finally held her serve to win the sixth game, the champion wrapped up the opening set with her fourth love game in just 26 minutes. The second set took just a little longer, with two challenges through the Hawk-Eye technology, but Mauresmo managed to even win both of those. The champion had everything pretty much her own way despite the 20-year-old fighting to win three games after being restricted to just 12 points in the first set. 