 No wonder Lee Childs beamed a huge smile of satisfaction across court 13 after his marathon five-set defeat of the No33 seed Nicolay Davydenko. The 21-year-old Briton's gripping 2-6, 7-6, 1-6, 7-6, 6-2 victory was not only his first on grass, in his first ever five-set match, but more significantly it was his first in a grand-slam event.  Childs, from Somerset, has twice been the national champion but has hitherto failed to live up to his billing as the next big thing in British tennis. Until yesterday that is.  An attack of nerves saw Childs, at 489 ranked 454 places below Davydenko, easily brushed aside in the first set but once he found his form he gradually reeled in his Russian opponent. "I was a bit nervous to start with, a bit frozen out there," said Childs. "But after the first few games you run it off and you feel fine."  Childs did freeze again at the start of the second set, immediately dropping his serve, but he quickly found his range again and a delightful running forehand then down-the-line pass saw him break back for 2-2.  It was the signal for Childs to step up a gear and, after struggling to hold at 5-5, he took the set into a tie-break - only his third ever on the main tour. Childs, despite immediately surrendering a mini-break, stormed through taking it 7-2.  As if stunned by his achievement, he was nowhere to be seen in the third and Davydenko stormed through the set in just 25 minutes. The Briton could easily have buckled after that but he regrouped, eventually taking another tie-break, a closer one this time at 7-5, to go into a deciding set.  With the British Davis Cup captain Roger Taylor at courtside, Childs proved the stronger. He immediately broke Davydenko to go ahead for the first time in the match and did not look back, taking the set and the match.  Alan Mackin, another British hopeful, started his match against the Brazilian Flavio Saretta in similar fashion to Childs, losing serve immediately and dropping the first set 6-2. Sadly for the 21-year-old from Paisley he also dropped the next two sets to lose 6-2, 6-4, 6-2.  Like Childs and Mackin, Lucie Ahl owed her participation to a wild card but unlike them she is, at 28, hardly the future of British tennis. She did, however, briefly threaten to have a future at this year's Wimbledon as she took the first set 6-3 against the No13 seed from Japan Ai Sugiyama.  Sugiyama took the second 6-4 but Ahl, working hard for every point, raced into a 3-1 lead in the final set. The strain eventually told on Ahl, however, when she squandered a chance for another break at 3-3 and had no more to offer, a grateful Sugiyama closing out the match 6-4 in the third.  Elsewhere, Arvind Parmar, who has failed to build on his early promise after twice winning first-round matches at Wimbledon, was thrashed 6-3, 6-4, 6-1 by the No8 seed Sjeng Schalken of the Netherlands. The British No1 Anne Keothavong, who has struggled with a wrist injury in recent weeks, was trailing 6-2, 4-0 to Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia when she was forced to retire. 