 Amélie Mauresmo choked when two points from winning the final of the Italian Open here yesterday and the Belgian Kim Clijsters took full advantage to take the title 3-6, 7-6, 6-0 Mauresmo blamed exhaustion after Saturday's semi-final win over Serena Williams but that did not tell the whole story. At crucial moments, notably when she was twice a break up in the second set, her nerve failed. The French Open starts next week and the fear will be that her courage may desert her in front of her home crowd at Roland Garros.  "I will just try to use the experience from past years, try to take it as a normal tournament and try to do my best," she said. "Of course there is going to be some pressure but you have to handle that and I'll try to do that."  That will be easier said than done, despite her dominating Clijsters for long periods of yesterday's match. Her backhand in full flight can be mesmerising and she has a deftness of touch, too, and elegance to harness her power.  Clijsters had dropped only 13 games on her way to the final but few would have believed that statistic from the way she played for the first set and a half. Forehands sailed long and wide, backhands found the bottom of the net and between points she was shaking her head in disbelief.  Mauresmo started as though in a hurry to get out of Rome and on to Paris. After half an hour she had the first set in the bag and a few minutes later had a 2-0 lead and a point for a double break.  She will doubtless be berating herself for the forehand she missed on that break point and for her failure either to settle her own nerves or to cope with Clijsters when the Belgian's game began to click into gear. Clijsters broke back, Mauresmo broke again and reached 30-30 when serving for the match at 6-5.  At that point the free-flowing shots which had got her into a winning position suddenly disappeared. Her inhibition continued in the tie-break and Clijsters gained confidence as fast as Mauresmo was losing it.  Having missed her chance, Mauresmo took advantage of a WTA rule which allows players to rest when the temperature rises above 28C (82F) , and she was given a 10-minute break to gather her thoughts and find some energy. It was too late. In the third set, as exhaustion and disappointment set in, she was a shadow of the player that started the match.  Clijsters, meantime, remembered why she is No2 in the world and the one person likely to have both the game and courage to challenge the Williams sisters at Roland Garros and beyond.  Mauresmo has plenty of reasons to feel satisfied with her efforts here but the memory of yesterday's mental aberration will be hard to erase.  ·  Martina Navratilova claimed her third title in Rome,  30 years after first appearing as a finalist, when she and Svetlana Kuznetsova beat Jelena Dokic and Nadia Petrova 6-4, 5-7, 6-2 in the doubles final.  Navratilova's opponents had a combined age of 40, six less than her own 46. It was her fifth title this year. She previously won in Rome with Chris Evert in 1975 and Gabriela Sabatini in 1987. But she lost all her four singles finals in Rome. 