 Wherever Ana Ivanovic's pleasure lies, it is certainly not in the east. When the Serbian world No4 was last in Beijing, for the Olympics, her stay lasted just three days before a thumb injury forced a withdrawal that she described as one of the worst moments of her career. An appearance in Tokyo last week brought another lowlight in the form of an opening-match defeat to Nadia Petrova, and Ivanovic's misery was compounded today when her latest visit to Beijing, at the China Open, was prematurely ended by local favourite Jie Zheng.  Ivanovic had promised her return to the Chinese capital would be "quite different" to the last, but a 7-6, 2-6, 6-4 quarter-final defeat to Zheng merely confirmed the downward trajectory her career has taken since losing to the same player in the third round at Wimbledon three months ago. That loss, which came hard on the heels of Ivanovic's ascent to world No1 following her maiden grand slam victory at the French Open, came as a shock; this one, following a slump that has seen her drop to No4, less so. Elevation to the top of the game proved something of a poisoned chalice for Ivanovic, whose meagre haul of four victories since winning in Paris is not entirely explained by her injury travails. Zheng, on the other hand, has gone from strength to strength. Seen principally as a doubles specialist prior to Wimbledon, where she became the first Chinese woman in history to reach the last four at a grand slam, her singles ranking has climbed from 133 to 30. The improvement in her game was palpable against Ivanovic, who faltered when serving for the opening set and saw an early break in the third cancelled out by a typically obdurate rearguard action from Zheng. "She was really aggressive and she was dominating a lot," said Ivanovic. "At the time I wasn't realising I was running a lot, but after the match when I talked to my coach, he was saying that, probably, I should have been more aggressive." Zheng will face Russia's Svetlana Kuznetsova, the fourth seed, in the semi-finals. In the other half of the draw world No2 Jelena Jankovic plays Daniela Hantuchova for the right to face Vera Zvonareva, who beat Spain's Anabel Medina Garrigues 6-0 6-1, in the last four. 