 Greg Rusedski and Tim Henman both crashed out of the US Open in the first round today, leaving Andy Murray as the only British hope left in the draw. Rusedski lost in straight sets to the impressive American James Blake only an hour after Tim Henman had been humbled by unseeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco 6-4, 6-2, 6-2. Fresh from his second ATP tour event win at New Haven last week, Blake had far too many shots for Rusedski, triumphing 7-5, 7-6, 6-3.  Both players broke serve early in the first set, but Rusedski looked the player under more pressure throughout as the athletic Blake moved smoothly around the court.  The Brit had a set point at 5-4, but Blake fought back and broke Rusedski in the next game, taking the set 7-5.  Rusedski began the second set in more determined mood, hitting a flurry of early aces to race through his own service games while looking to capitalise on Blake's serve to try to get himself back into the match.  But he had no answer to Blake's superb range of shots from the back of the court in the eventual tie-break - the American winning 7-3.  Rusedski again started the third set brightly, but he was worn down by a succession of brilliant winners from the exciting young American, who broke Rusedski's serve in the sixth game of the third set, before taking the set 6-3.  Earlier Henman, who came into his match struggling for fitness, never got into his stride on the Louis Armstrong Court against Verdasco.  The 30-year-old had failed to make it past the third round of any of this year's Grand Slam events prior to his arrival in New York, and has still won just one match since his dismal second-round exit at Wimbledon in June.  The wretched performance was in stark contrast to Henman's last appearance at Flushing Meadows - when he looked so comfortable on the hard-court surface en route to last year's semi-finals - and he never got to grips with his big-hitting opponent.  Verdasco, 21, was stronger in every department and cruised to victory as Henman wilted in the New York heat.  Elsewhere, world No1 Roger Federer crusied into the second round with a 6-1, 6-1, 6-1 thrashing of Ivo Minar. 