 Alex Bogdanovic cut a forlorn figure after failing to get Great Britain off to a winning start in their Davis Cup clash with Israel at Eastbourne's Devonshire Park. A packed crowd, who had hoped to cheer Britain to a vital win over opponents they beat in the Euro-Africa Zone One 16 months ago, saw the domestic No4 crash 6-4, 7-5, 6-2 to Israel's Noam Okun after two hours of toil. "It was a tough match and obviously not my best performance," Bogdanovic admitted. "I was mentally nervous at the start but I gave it my best shot.  "But he (Okun) played better than in Tel Aviv and deserved to win. Davis Cup tennis is different than when you are just playing for yourself which doesn't seem to matter so much. You definitely feel a pressure out there and feel you have to put in a bit extra and that sometimes stops you staying aggressive and playing your own game.  "But I want to play the second match (against Ram) and I'm ready for it. Now it is up to the captain and we'll have a chat and see what he wants."  Flag-waving fans were soon subdued after Bogdanovic lost his opening service game and it went from bad to worse for the 22-year-old stand-in for the injured Greg Rusedski. He briefly threatened a fightback from 5-1 down in the first set but Okun, who beat him in four sets in Tel Aviv last year, held his nerve and wrapped the opener up on serve after being broken for the first time. The second set was closer with a more confident Bogdanovic taking matters to a 12th game and having a great chance to lead 6-5 until he netted a simple volley. Okun again served confidently to grab a two-set lead and broke again in the third game of the third set to put the writing on the wall. Bogdanovic, who asked to be dropped from the Davis Cup team that lost to Serbia and Montenegro in April following his defeat by Okun in Tel Aviv, never got to grips with his opponent after that and the end was inevitable. It left Andy Murray, Britain's No1, to try to rescue the situation against Israeli No2 Andy Ram. 