 Every dog has his day, or so they say. Prompted by Tim Southee's career-best 77 against England earlier this week we thought we'd look at some of the greatest tail-end innings in the history of the cricket. Ones that weren't scored against Jimmy Anderson. 1) 1911 Ted Alletson 189 c Smith b Cox. At Hove. Nottinghamshire drew with Sussex. "I don't think it matters what you do now Ted."  "Then I'm not half going to give that Killick some stick." Now isn't that a fine way for a story to start. Ernest Killick, a slow-bowler, had taken five for 14 in the first innings as Notts struggled to stay in the match. Their second-innings score was 185 for seven when Alletson came to the crease. He batted normally until the fall of the ninth wicket, just before lunch. At the break Notts were a scant 84 ahead, and it was then that Alletson and his captain had thatconversation. Given licence to swing his arms - and they had a span of 6ft 6in - Alletson set about the bowling. And then some. In the next 40 minutes he scored 142 runs. At one point he had hit 115 out of 120 scored in seven overs, including 34 from a single Killick over. The innings would have been even quicker had time not been lost replacing the five balls that were lost, hit out of the ground. Several more minutes were occupied in prising out a ball that he drove into the soft wooden panelling of the south stand, while George Gunn remembered one square-cut which smashed the pavilion window and wrecked the bar clock. It was the only century Alletson ever scored, and the most remarkable tail-end innings in the history of the game. Click here to see the scorecard of Alletson's innings. 2) 1926 RC Robertson-Glasgow 49 c Strudwick b Jardine. The Oval. Somerset lost to Surrey by 77 runs. Like an amateur angler in the pub, the size of the fish doesn't matter so much as the story about how it got away. Robertson-Glasgow's story here is one of my favourites. As he recalls in his book 46 Not Out: "It was only a game, nor even of its kind a game that mattered much to any except to a few cricketers and cricket-watchers, a few unsmiling statisticians, a few reporters, who cursed cricket for missing their trains for them and damned first slip for standing too wide to catch that very late, almost posthumous cut. Yes, yes, but it was us; with one wicket to fall and 217 runs to make; and we saw no reason on earth, above it, or below, why we shouldn't make them... Soon I joined the fun; and I knew where we stood when Percy Fender deserted leg-breaks for his faster experiments. I hooked him high into the road ... And now we had the crowd with us; which is the solace and reward of last-wicketers. 250 up. 300. Cheers from the ring, with advice, exhortation; gestures of delight and surprise from the 'lucky people' in the Somerset balcony. 100 to win. Easy. "Johnson to his hundred and what a beauty. Under 80 to win. A cake-walk. Johnson, even more terrific; Glasgow wondering whether the Test match selectors are anywhere around. The Fender called on Jardine to bowl... at that fatal instant, it was not Jardine but the telegraph-board, that ruined me. It showed my score, 49. The once pale ghost of victory was almost a body; alive, tangible, possessed. Some sudden madness seized me; with one eye on my score and the other on the presumed perimeter of the ball, I chopped, avid, but casual - and there was the ball in Strudwick's hands, and Jardine smiling, and Randall Johnson alone in his glory." 3) 1980 Bob Willis 24* v West Indies. The Oval. Match drawn. Next time you hear Willis bemoan a bowler's lack of pluck, spare a thought for his own best Test innings before you dismiss him as a curmudgeon. Up against the pace quartet of Joel Garner, Michael Holding, Colin Croft and Malcolm Marshall, England had collapsed to 92 for nine. It gave them a lead of 197, and left West Indies with 3½ hours to make them in. Or it would have done, if they just could have got Willis out. His 24 equalled his highest score for England, and followed a sequence of 10 innings in which he'd reached double figures just once. Relying on what Wisden described as "the ungainly effectiveness of his lunging forward stroke", Willis batted for more balls than Boycott, Gooch, Gatting and Botham combined. Willis lasted 114 balls and just under three hours, helping Peter Willey bat his way to his first Test century and England to a draw against one of the most feared attacks in Test history. 4) 1995 Mushtaq Ahmed 20* v Australia. At Karachi. Pakistan won by one wicket. You could scarcely see an odder couple together at the wicket: stocky little Mushtaq, hardly chest-high to his tenth-wicket partner, the portly Inzamam-ul-Haq. Australia had set a stiff fourth-innings target of 314, and had an (astonishingly lithe) Shane Warne bowling almost unchanged through the final day. He tore through the middle-order and Pakistan were reduced to 258 for nine. Pakistan had never lost at the National Stadium, over 31 previous matches they'd never come closer to defeat. In waddled Mushy, a man with a previous Test best of just 12. He prodded and poked his way past Warne, played a pair of gloriously rustic swats to the leg boundary before trotting down the pitch to chatter with Inzamam, a clear foot taller than him. Inzi finished with 58, but he was actually out-paced by his partner, whose breezy innings made a joke of the severe pressure of the situation. Click here to watch Inzy and Mushy pull off one of the great Test wins, courtesy of short-lived '90s monthly VHS magazine Cover Point. 5) 1998-99 Geoff Allott 0 v South Africa. At Auckland. Match drawn. In 1997 Danny Morrison kept England at bay for a full three hours, denying England a victory that seemed to be a near-certainty at lunch on the final day. Morrison held the world record for most Test ducks - 24 - at the time, and his innings should really find a place in this list. But ... his place is instead taken by Geoff Allott, simply because Morrison seemingly risked the result by having the audacity to actually score some runs. There was no such frippery from Allott, who, in 1999 batted for a full 101 minutes without even producing a single scoring stroke. He contributed zero to a partnership of 32 with Chris Harris, taking 27 overs out of match which New Zealand could only have drawn or lost. Morrison, despite his record number of ducks, was actually a far better batsman than Allott, who had a career average of just four, with a mighty top score of 13, from 83 innings in all forms of the game. Holding out here against Allan Donald and Shaun Pollock in their pomp, it was the hardest-earned duck in the history of Test cricket. 6) 2004-05 Glenn McGrath 61 c Astle b Martin / Jason Gillespie 54* v New Zealand. At Brisbane. Australia won by an innings and 156 runs. New Zealand had ground their way through 117 overs against Australia, their attack being carved apart by Adam Gilchrist and Michael Clarke. Finally, with the score on 471, in walks last man Glenn McGrath. Phew. What a relief. Almost done. McGrath and Gillespie: how hard can this be? Give it a minute and we'll be back in the pavilion. How many runs would you let the two men score before you gave up all hope, and resigned yourself to the idea that no matter how depressing a game of cricket gets, it can surely never be worse than this? McGrath, drove, pulled and even hooked a six on his way to his only Test fifty and the highest score by an Australian No11. Ricky Ponting shelved his plans for a declaration as the two batted through 36 overs to the close of play, putting on a morale-sapping 114 runs together. Gillespie celebrated his fifty by mounting his bat and riding it as though it were a horse. Utterly humiliated by this farce, New Zealand collapsed to a dismal 76 all out the next day. Click here to watch Glenn McGrath's finest innings. 