 The England and Wales Cricket Board gathered the great and good in a hotel tucked away in the middle of the Warwickshire countryside last week to discuss various aspects of the game. Among the great and good were county chairmen, cricket directors and chief executives. And the correspondents of the Guardian and Observer were also invited along. Much good sense came from the expert panellists on the stage – from such people as Andy Flower downwards. But as ever a few issues were politely skirted. No one actually acknowledged that when the time for decision-making comes along commercial interests always seem outstrip cricketing ones in the 21st century. So it is that we have managed to shed one domestic competition for 2010, yet the average county cricketer will be required to play two more days this year than in 2009. So it is that when the World Cup and every other ODI is played around the globe the duration is 50 overs. But in England the counties will be playing 40-over cricket because the commercial gurus think that they can eke out a bit more money that way. And, most ludicrously, so it is that we persist in trying to play cricket before the summer arrives. There are some capable men within the ECB but, as far as I know, none of them yet has the power to control the weather. The season starts on 9 April. Invariably, if the rain or snow relents, the cricketers will be wearing three sweaters, there will be two anorak-clad men in the stands and the game will endure its annual dose of ridicule. There was almost unanimity in Warwickshire – albeit by a show of hands, which is never the most reliable indication of voting intentions – that too much domestic cricket is played in England. There was a pragmatic consensus that the best way to alter the volume is to reduce the number of days devoted to Championship cricket. The ideal is reckoned to be about 12 four-day matches, enough for a credible competition, enough to allow potential Test players to demonstrate their skills. But there has never been a satisfactory way of achieving that balance. I am going to offer one. Currently we have two divisions of nine teams, who play each other twice in the Championship. If they played each other once there would be just eight games each season – not enough. A more complicated conference system has been suggested in which there are three leagues, with the teams for each conference either randomly or geographically selected. The winners of each conference and the best runner-up would become the four semi-finalists. Clever, but complicated for the punter and those running the competition. How do you cope with the drawn semi-final/final? Are we convinced that the best side will win the Championship under this system? My solution at least has the virtue of simplicity. There would still be two divisions. But the first division would comprise 12 teams, who would play each other once, thus providing the optimum number of games per season. The second division would therefore comprise six sides, who play each other twice. Two teams each year would be promoted and relegated. This twelve/six split mirrors the current strength of the Championship. There would be greater stigma attached to being in the second division, but that may not be a bad thing. It might spur those county sides, which have almost ditched any Championship ambitions, to seek promotion again. It may be that number of teams could increase if Ireland and Scotland, who both harbour ambitions beyond ODI cricket, joined the second division. In which case the first division might comprise 13 teams, the second seven. It's simple, it's fair, it retains the integrity of the Championship and it would mean that we do not have to start the season before the leaves have sprouted or end it when they cover the square. When shall we start? 