 If I was facing one of the Williams sisters in today's women's singles final with the game that I had at my peak, I would like my chances of winning. Being able to move like I used to and hit the ball as I did, I think I could be the superior player. I played doubles with Serena in Japan last year, practised with her a few times and played some singles points which made me realise how much fun it would have been to play her properly.  Serena has had one fantastic year in her career and you can't be the greatest ever player simply after that, no matter how amazing it was for her to hold all four grand slam titles at the same time. If you compare that feat to the three or four years that I or Steffi Graf had at the top, she's behind us. Me or Steffi against either of the Williams sisters would be great match-ups and it's a pity that we can't do it.  On a given day Serena could have overpowered me as she could anyone, but that's at her best. I think my average against her average would be better because I missed less. They both hit big balls but go for so much that they make a lot of errors. In a typical match I would have 20 winners and 10 unforced errors. For them it's much more even and sometimes goes the other way. I could count on one hand matches where I had more unforced errors than winners.  The Williams go for more and miss more than I did. But they don't like playing people who run well and retrieve well, which is why Justine Henin-Hardenne won on clay against Serena at Roland Garros. I was good at fetching the ball too and would have matched up just fine.  They also don't like the low ball. These days the players are all used to the user-friendly ball. It's not easy but it's up there and begging to be hit. If you make them duck they don't like that. I had a good sliced backhand, as did Steffi, and I would have used it to good effect.  At their best they're stronger, hitting the ball harder and built bigger - but, given the junk shots that I'd be able to deliver, like keeping the ball low, they can't play their game. They can't be hitting winners from down there.  But then, the game was harder in the 1970s and 80s. The rackets had a smaller head which was a long way from your hand compared with now. The closer the sweet spot is to your hand the easier it is to hit; it's magnifying the hand-eye co-ordination. Any time you make it more possible for a player to achieve something with less skill, then you're evening things out too much and it's more difficult for the cream to rise to the top. The first time I played with a metal racket I thought it was a joke because it was so easy.  The sweet spot has to be made smaller to bring back finesse and skill. You see players who really aren't very good but who are hitting great shots with the flick of a wrist. I enjoy playing still because I like creating shots and being imaginative which is what the public wants to see. Tennis is becoming one-dimensional and the beauty has always been the contrast in styles. We don't have enough variety. Most of the players are just happy to stay on the baseline because it's much easier to hit ground-strokes than volleys. If you've got someone using a racket that powerful, players like Martina Hingis and John McEnroe would struggle to compete because they wouldn't have got the ball back. You want to level the playing field so that skill will win over brawn.  Changing the rackets is the only way to do it, as making the balls bigger will lead to players getting pounded and more injured. There are very specific rules in golf to regulate clubs and balls which we should follow. The biggest obstacle is the manufacturers but since when have they dictated what kind of tennis you see out there.  People will always come to Wimbledon because it is Wimbledon but, once they're in, you hope that the game takes over and they think: "This is really cool, maybe I should give it a try." The key is sparking the interest. I think the game can be good enough in itself. The extra stuff with Anna Kournikova and Maria Sharapova gets the guys excited but that's an extra dimension that we really don't need. We have personalities anyway, without having to have sex attached to it.  Having said that, we could have done with some surprises in the women's section this year. We were hoping for something unusual to happen but it didn't. We had some potential fireworks but all the women seemed to fizzle out in the third set against the Williams, who just imposed themselves. You know at 1-1 in sets that, if you don't seize the chance, it just runs away from you, and that has happened in every three-set match they've had here.  You hope for a final which is a Williams against somebody else. It's like two home teams against each other. You want to be able to take sides.  If Venus is healthy it will be a great match but the public can't get into it emotionally and that is what's missing. With the Williams it's staying in the same family, so it doesn't really matter. You don't have the contrast in personalities, in styles or even where they come from. You just have to appreciate the tennis they have.  Serena is serving better than Venus, missing fewer shots and seems in better shape physically, so I would have to go for her today. But I would love to be out there myself giving them a run for their money.  Grand slam head-to-head  Martina Navratilova  18 titles from 32 finals. Success rate:  56%   Serena Williams  Five titles from six finals. Success rate:  84%   Venus Williams  Four titles from nine finals. Success rate:  44% 