 Amélie Mauresmo, like Roger Federer, is an immensely gifted player who is prone to nerves and choking. The difference is that Mauresmo has identified her problems and is attempting to overcome them, whereas Federer, apparently, remains in denial.  Nerves kicked in so badly for Mauresmo at the French Open two years ago that she froze completely in the first round against Germany's Jana Kandarr, and this after she had gone to Roland Garros in supreme form with the best record on clay that year.  This year she has also been playing superbly, defeating Venus Williams in the final at Warsaw and knocking out sister Serena in the Italian Open semi-finals. But understandably there was concern all around the Philippe Chatrier court that she might again succumb to the pressure of expectation in front of her home fans.  She did not, though, winning 6-3, 7-5 against her fellow Frenchwoman Virginie Razzano.Yet it was not entirely plain sailing with a few minor squalls blowing up, notably at the start of the second set, although she never threatened to capsize. "I was very tense before, but during the match I managed to stay calm. It was not a perfect performance," she said. "The first round is always difficult, but I'm getting more mature."  Mauresmo, 23, was, like Federer, a highly talented junior and shot into the limelight in 1999 when she reached the final of the Australian Open, where she lost to the now-retired Martina Hingis.  It appeared she was poised for certain success but a potent mixture of injuries, loss of nerve, personal problems, and the rise and rise of the Williams sisters led to almost three years of struggle and doubt.  Last year the quality of her play began to be properly reflected in her grand slam results: a quarter-final at Melbourne, a fourth round at Roland Garros - equalling her best - and a semi-final apiece at Wimbledon and the US Open. She missed this year's Australian Open with a knee injury but since then her form and confidence have burgeoned. "I've learned my lesson from previous experiences. Now I have a certain serenity," she admitted.  Whether such serenity extends to Serena Williams will be tested if Mauresmo and the reigning champion progress to their projected quarter-final next week. The French No5 seed believes the younger Williams may be at her most vulnerable here - "I just feel she has a bit more trouble moving on clay, and that maybe you can disturb her." This may be wishful thinking, although there were times in her opening first-round match against her fellow American Barbara Rittner when Serena, who has lost weight, appeared something less than fleet. Not that it showed in the scoreline, Williams winning 6-2, 6-1.  Asked about her weight she said: "I haven't stepped on a scale in about six, seven years. I never will step on a scale, so I'm not sure if I lost weight or not.  "It's like an American thing. No woman in America would. Pretty much everyone thinks they're overweight. I currently believe like I need to lose 15 pounds."  But she added: "I think players generally believe that I'm the player to beat in any tournament, especially in slams, because I kick it up to a new level physically and mentally. This is what I play tennis for, to be remembered." 