 On 3 July 2004, a bright, tennis-obsessed 10-year-old was in front of the television at her family home in Montreal when she witnessed a tall young Russian lifting the Wimbledon women's trophy. "I thought: 'Wow, what she's doing is cool,'" the little girl would say years later of Maria Sharapova's victory. "I want to do the same." Eugenie Bouchard was no newcomer to tennis at the time. She had already been playing the game seriously for five years, and had even met Sharapova two years earlier, posing in an awkward hug for a now-celebrated family snapshot. But if some might have been tempted to dismiss her comment as a child's idle fantasy, Bouchard, even at that age, was in deadly earnest. On Saturday she will have her chance, having rocketed to the Wimbledon final on a career trajectory that even her own team admit they did not predict. Having completed only one full season in the senior tour, Bouchard has now reached the semi-finals or better of three consecutive grand slams. A victory on Centre Court against the 2011 champion, Petra Kvitová, would herald the emphatic arrival of a serious new tennis talent. The only person who would not be surprised is Bouchard. "I've played for 15 years now," she said earlier in the tournament. "I've put in a lot of hard work. So results that come for me, in the back of my mind I expected them because I've put in so much time and effort." Bouchard has a big serve and a powerful forehand, but most striking among what the likeable Canadian calls "my weapons" is an unshakeable, almost unnerving self-belief that is rarely seen among women of her age, even those nearing the peak of their sport. "Eugenie Bouchard is one cool cat," veteran tennis coach Nick Bolletieri said this week, describing her as "a 20-year-old with ice in her veins". Her agent, Sam Duvall, said:"It's unbelievable how focused this girl is. She has that body language that makes you say: 'Wow, that girl is going to win all the points.'" The drive was there from a very young age. Born to Mike Leclair, an investment banker, and his wife, Julie, a "history buff" who confessed this week that she "loved Princess Diana", Bouchard was named, like the rest of her siblings, after European royals. Eugenie has a twin sister, Beatrice, and the pair started a children's tennis class at the age of five. While her sister enjoyed playing the warm-up balloon games, Bouchard says she hated them. "I just wanted to hit more balls and actually play tennis". Beatrice, she has said, only half in jest, retired at six. By nine, Eugenie knew she wanted to be a professional tennis player. The family moved to Florida when Eugenie was 12 to accommodate her career. "We've had to make a lot of sacrifices as a family – financially, family time – but it is worth it," Leclair said. Watching her daughter's matches this week with her son, William, had been "a bit like going to the dentist, but we are so proud of her". Beatrice and their sister Charlotte, flew in on Friday for the final. With her family behind her, the young Eugenie rose through the ranks, culminating in a victory in the Junior Wimbledon tournament two years ago. Since then, Bouchard has won a passionate coterie of fans who call themselves the "Genie army" and have taken to throwing cuddly toys on to the court after her victories. But if fans have come easily, friendships are a different matter. In her teens Bouchard became close to the British No 2, Laura Robson, another Junior Wimbledon winner who trains with her Canadian counterpart at the Nick Saviano school in Florida; in 2012 the pair filmed a Gangnam Style tribute video while on tour in China which has been viewed more than half a million times on YouTube. When asked recently to name her best friend on the tour, however, Bouchard said: "I don't have one. I don't think the tennis tour is the place to have friends. For me it's all competition." That single-minded, almost ruthless focus has led some to draw comparisons to the ice-cool Sharapova. But where the Russian can sometimes be brittle and forbidding, Bouchard retains an easy manner and winningly dry sense of humour. Asked whether fellow Canadian Justin Bieber, of whom she is a fan, had noticed her yet, she said with a flicker of a smile: "I hope so. I'm putting in so much work, you know. I want to see this hard work rewarded." That potent mix of likeability, looks and talent means, inevitably, that tennis fans are not the only ones excited about the rise of Bouchard. "Her marketability, if she performs, I have to say is better than anyone on tour," Duvall said earlier this year. "She is the total package." Many predict Bouchard could easily emulate Sharapova not only in grand slam titles – the Russian has five – but in multimillion-pound endorsement deals. For Bouchard, however, emulating her childhood hero is no longer what counts. "I see it as a compliment to be compared to someone like Sharapova … But … I don't want to be the next someone else. I want to be the first of me. I'll try to make my own history." 