 Roger Federer admitted a lapse in form led to him losing the second set of his Cincinatti Masters quarter-final with Spaniard Nicolas Almagro. The world No1 came back to take the match 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, to set up a semi-final with Lleyton Hewitt. "I had one really bad game and it cost me the set," Federer said. "It happens. I'm happy that it doesn't happen every match." In a tournament of upsets, it appeared for a few minutes in the second set that the biggest one of all could be on the cards. Almagro matched Federer's every shot and levelled the match with the only break of the set. It was only the second set Almagro had ever taken off the Swiss in four previous matches, and he had to raise his game to new heights on a hard court to achieve it. His hopes were dashed soon after, as Federer broke serve to go 2-0 up in the final set, and never looked back. Almagro showed his frustration when he threw his racket in disgust after his opponent held serve to 4-1 up and Federer then strolled to victory. Federer was typically restrained about his recent record over his next opponent, current world No19, Lleyton Hewitt. Federer is unbeaten against the Australian in 10 matches, which include a quarter-final win in last week's Montreal Masters. But he was quick to point out the match was their first in some time. "I didn't think of it as nine in a row before last week because we hadn't played in two years," Federer said. "In two years, a lot happens. From my point of view, it's 1-0." Hewitt made the semi-final by virtue of a comfortable two-set victory over Carlos Moya. The Spaniard seemed to be lacking energy after his last match, a draining three-setter which had obviously taken its toll. The temperatures hit 110 degrees during his match with Hewitt, and it was a little too much for the experienced Moya. "I'm not 20-years-old any more, so I felt it a little bit," he said. Moya, who is 30-years-old, was unable to match Hewitt, four years his junior, who believes he is in good shape to take on Federer in spite of his record. "On any given day, I feel I'm capable of beating anybody in the game," said Hewitt. "The last few months, my body has felt very good. That makes it easier to go out with confidence and play the way I want to play." He set the tone of the quarter-final, breaking Moya's serve in the first game of the match, and he never looked back, making only two unforced errors in the first set. At 3-0 down in the second set, Moya called the trainer on to treat a blistered foot. With the crowd behind him, he offered some resistance, and made Hewitt work for the win, but the result was never really in doubt. James Blake defeated 19-year-old Sam Querrey 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 in an all-American quarter-final. He will meet Nikolay Davydenko in the second semi-final in Mason, Ohio 