 Greg Rusedski and Tim Henman have never been the closest of confidants, but few players are better placed than Rusedski to offer Henman some much-needed advice as he contemplates not only Wednesday's defeat by Andy Murray but the end of a season marked by disappointment and frustration. Rusedski, who at 32 is a year older than Henman, is something of an expert on adversity, having survived a casualty ward-full of injuries during his long and colourful career as well as coming through the trauma of testing positive for nandrolone not only unscathed but as a better, more focused player. Yesterday he was in typically upbeat mood after beating Kevin Kim 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 to earn a place in the quarter-finals of the St Petersburg Open, reminding Henman that, on top of everything else, he may also be about to lose the British No1 spot to an old adversary just as he is having to worry about a new one in the shape of Murray. Rusedski needs only to beat Thomas Johansson today, then match whatever Henman does in the last remaining event of the season, the Paris Masters next week, to rub salt into the obvious wounds in Henman's self-confidence, inflicted by his bad form this year and then inflamed by his humiliation at the hands of Murray. "I definitely have had to come back a couple of times and it hasn't been easy, no question about it," said Rusedski, before suggesting that, in his opinion, talk of Henman's imminent retirement may not be that far-fetched. "He's got to look at his family situation - he's got two kids, he's happily married and life is very good. If you look at it with most players [Pat] Rafter retired at 28, [Stefan] Edberg was 30. He's just got to figure it out for himself. No matter what I say or do, it comes down to him at the end of the day and he's just got to sit there and figure it out. "He's got to look at himself in the mirror and say, 'Do I want to do this?' He's the only person who can answer that question. He has to look within himself and figure out what he has to do. He's had a great career to date. The only person who can make that decision is him. He's had a great career no matter what, whether he decides to continue or whether he doesn't." Unless Henman can repeat the feat he achieved in 2003 by winning the title in Paris, he is almost certain to finish the year outside the world's top 30. And if neither his chronic back problems nor his form show a big improvement at the beginning of next year, he will be in grave danger of finding himself unseeded for January's Australian Open. He has already hinted in a television interview with Sue Barker that there is a limit to how long he will put up with losing. After finishing second-best to Murray, Henman was sounding a little more optimistic about his chances of rescuing his career from its freefall but he is still clearly troubled by his back - he wore taping during the match with Murray - and it will not help his chances of putting in a sustained effort during the off-season. Henman's problem this year seems to have been that when his body was not failing him, his mind was: his reoccurring aches and pains and feelings of burn-out have contributed to the crisis in which he finds himself. "I'll hope to play better in Paris but unless I win it again then it's not going to deflect from what's been a difficult season," Henman said. "Likewise, the result against Andy is not going to deflect from the way I approach the end of November and the whole of December. I'm going to be very ready to play some good tennis at the beginning of 2006. "There's going to have to be an element of patience involved because over the last few weeks I've been doing a lot of positive things and it hasn't really shown on the court. Likewise, when I do all the work that I'm going to do in December, it doesn't necessarily mean it's going to pay off in Doha or at the Australian Open or in those early tournaments of 2006. "It will be a good test of my character to see how patient I can be and continue that work ethic. You've got to have belief that if you do the right things then it's going to pay off on the match court." And if he cannot find that belief, he knows who to call. No doubt Rusedski will be only too happy to offer more guidance. 