 Tim Henman may have looked at the five yellow balloons floating high and bright alongside his court and wondered whether it was a party for his benefit.  His opponent was gifting him more points than he himself was winning and after only 50 minutes of moderate effort Henman was acknowledging the applause, free to put up his feet when rivals were being cooked out on court.  That was the British view. A more international perspective on Henman's 6-1, 6-0 win over Younes El Aynaoui in the Masters Series first round raised questions as to whether one of the most charismatic players on the tour will ever get back to what he was.  The 32-year-old had not competed since injuring a foot in the Australian Open in January. Having recovered from that, El Aynaoui recently damaged a shoulder, and having decided to try yesterday anyway he promptly hurt it again in the knock-up.  Nothing went right for the popular Moroccan. Even when a line judge made a preposterous call in his favour on match point - it was, after all, easy to give him a sympathy vote - it was sharply overruled by the umpire.  The finish indicated the ambivalence many felt about the contest taking place at all. One of the most protracted exchanges was a verbal one, at the net, while shaking hands. "I'm a bit of a shoulder anorak for obvious reasons," said Henman, referring to last year's career-threatening injury. "I was asking how much he was feeling it. Hopefully he won't try to do what I tried to do and play for too long."  Henman's chance to relax is all the more welcome in view of how jaded he finished at Wimbledon.  "If you are going to progress and win more and more you want to conserve as much energy as possible," he said. "It's going to get tougher, and there's every chance it's going to be hot." The shade temperature was already 32C (90F) and rising, and soon Hicham Arazi, his next opponent, was battling for two hours and 49 minutes before grinding Vince Spadea into retirement with heat exhaustion.  If Henman wins again and progresses one round further than Carlos Moya he should climb to equal his career-highest ranking of No4, and that would be of great value for his Olympic seeding.  Similar thoughts may have crossed Roger Federer's mind. Only two days after beating Andy Roddick in Toronto, he suffered a strange first-round defeat to Dominik Hrbaty, the world No20 from Slovakia.  It ended the Wimbledon champion's career-best run of 23 victories, the best on the tour for five years. "It may have been one tournament too much for me, so I am not too disappointed," he admitted after his 1-6, 7-6, 6-4 defeat. "I can have a few more days off, so that's the positive side to it."  The gold medal now looms a bit brighter.  · Justine Henin-Hardenne, the world No1, will compete in the Olympics. The 22-year-old Belgian has not played since the French Open in May because of a viral infection. 