 A promising British cricketer has been shot dead while holidaying in Trinidad after an apparent armed robbery.  Cricket captain Adrian St John, 22, is understood to have died in Trinidad on Sunday night. Local media reported that a 24-year-old man had been arrested on suspicion of murder. The Foreign Office said: “We are in contact with authorities following the death of a British national in Trinidad and are ready to provide consular assistance.” Tributes were paid to St John, who worked as a recruitment consultant in London. West Indies cricket star Chris Gayle tweeted: Such sad news to hear. My condolences to his family & friends. Adrian St John was the captain of the academy. #Sigh pic.twitter.com/Pg4OAmEMC6 The Chris Gayle Academy, where St John was captain, opened in 2013 to “improve access to good quality education, training and employment for at risk young people in Jamaica and the UK”.  St John also played for Alleyn Cricket Club in south London and for his university squad at the University of Hertfordshire.  Saddened by the news of the death of one of our Alumni, Adrian St John. Our prayers are with his family. RIP Adrian pic.twitter.com/kskQWc2gBM Local media reported the armed robbery took place in Mt D’Or in the north of the island, as St John stopped his car to pick up the daughter of a female passenger.  Police told the Trinidad & Tobago Guardian that two men robbed the passengers and then ordered St John to drive off but fired a gun after the car, hitting the British man. He died in hospital of his injuries, the paper said.  St John’s cousin, Leandra Alexander, told the T&T Guardian he had been visiting the country for the carnival and was scheduled to return to the UK next Tuesday. “Adrian was very cool and jolly. He was a darling. He was never rude, never disrespectful, he was just a cool and quiet child,” Alexander said.  Donovan Miller, a coach and mentor to St John at the Chris Gayle Academy, told the Press Association he was in shock. “I’m really finding it hard to come to terms with it, how someone could do something like that to such a lovely person,” he said. “He wanted me to support him to go to the Caribbean and to push hard with his cricket. He’s just finished his degree at university, which we supported him through as well.” Miller said one of the academy members broke the news to him in a phone call on Monday. He said Gayle was one of the first people he rang and said the cricket star knew St John “quite well”. Friends posted pictures on social media of St John in his cricket whites, with one calling him “one of the funniest and nicest people”. In utter shock to hear that one of my good friends Adrian has passed away. One of the funniest and nicest people.... pic.twitter.com/BMCxgZrFxv Completely shocked. A Privilege to have played with you Adrian St John. R.I.P #olcc pic.twitter.com/U2jGXozaoN Adrian St John, who played for us 85 times from 2009 to 2014, has been murdered in Trinidad. We're devastated. pic.twitter.com/bBDB0EIELL 