 There was the sound of stretching flesh here in New York yesterday morning as Lindsay Davenport, who could barely walk a week ago, dismembered Hungary's Melinda Czink 6-0, 6-2 - and no jokes about plug holes, please - to reach the last 16 of the US Open.  For much of the year Davenport has had a left foot problem that will eventually need surgery, but the former US Open champion is clearly working on the theory that the less time she spends on court, the better her chances of capitalising on this non-Williams year.  Twenty years ago the US had 19 women in the last 32. By the fourth day this year they had already been reduced to just four, with only Davenport, the No3 seed, and Jennifer Capriati, the No6, having any chance of winning.  Capriati beat Martina Sucha of Slovakia 6-1, 6-1 under the floodlights, and knows only too well that this is her best chance to win here. She has not beaten either Kim Clijsters or Justine Henin-Hardenne this year, but last week in New Haven broke a 28-tournament streak without a title and is feeling very confident.  She next faces France's Emilie Loit who, to the disappointment of many, knocked out the 16-year-old Russian Maria Sharapova who could not cope with the guile and spin of the French woman's clever game, even though Loit had to receive on-court treatment for a back problem.  Loit, who is only 5ft 5in, gave Serena Williams a considerable scare in the first round of this year's Australian Open in Melbourne, with the American just three points away from defeat at one stage before winning 7-5 in the third set.  "I think I have a really good chance against Jennifer because she likes to play really quickly and hopefully I can slow the game down and frustrate her," said the left-handed Loit.  However Capriati is hitting the ball as cleanly as she has done in some time and said: "I feel like I'm more accurate. I've been trying to get in shape, but also to get looser and feel more agile."  More than anything she appears at ease with herself, a point backed up by her mother, Denise. "Jennifer is happier than I've known her for some time." And this year, above all others in recent times, happiness could so easily be titled-shaped. 