 Shales' career in the umpire's chair began when he was 17 and spanned 45 years. He notched up 11 Wimbledon finals: the first was the 1978 women's singles match between Chris Evert and Martina Navratalova. His last appearance was in June this year for the men's doubles semi-finals. However, Shales was better known for his clashes with some of the game's most notorious characters - Ilie Nastase, Jimmy Connors and John McEnroe. Some occurred on the international circuit when Shales and Richard Kauffman of the US were handpicked in 1985 by the Men's International Professional Tennis Council to be full-time professional umpires. They were given new rules to do the job, but little attempt had been made to enlighten the players. Not that some top names would have listened. It was an age when players were allowed to "express themselves", as the Americans liked to put it. Express themselves they did. Some of the on-court behaviour was truly outrageous, with Connors specialising in obscene gestures with his racket handle, Nastase switching from clown to goon and back, and McEnroe erupting into volcanic outbursts over every close line call. It is probably true that Shales was too nice to deal with such driven, high-octane personalities. If he came down too hard, they challenged him; if he eased up, they took it for weakness. He was not alone. Numerous bust-ups resulted from amateur officials' nervous reactions to incidents that might have blown over if handled more diplomatically. But Shales' British accent made him appear schoolmasterish to many overseas players. Nastase, in a Wimbledon quarter final against Bjorn Borg in 1977, famously rounded on him after a reprimand and screamed "Mister Nastase to you! You call me Mr Nastase!" Shales did just that, but still issued the star with code of conduct warnings. It was the code, drawn up under the Pro Council leadership of a North Carolina lawyer, Marshall Happer, that the players hated. "We are not automatons," said McEnroe, "how can we play and entertain if we cannot show our feelings?" There is no doubt that the "Terrible Trio", as they were known in the media, attracted a broader following to tennis as a result of their behaviour, but something was obviously wrong when a match ended prematurely because of an umpiring dispute. In the semi-final of the Lipton tournament at Boca West, Florida, in 1986, Connors was playing Ivan Lendl and objected to a Shales over-rule. After another increasingly heated row, the match ended when Connors simply refused to play the fifth set. Many believe that player power had its way, and Shales' contract with the Pro Council was terminated in 1987. "It was a very tough arena to work in," says Gerry Armstrong, one of today's leading umpires. "Everyone understands the rules and player behaviour so much better now. But Jeremy was there back in the 70s and was most helpful to me when I came on the scene. We had our usual cup of tea together at Wimbledon such a short time ago." Shales was born in Fulmer Chase, Buckinghamshire, grew up in East Sheen, and was educated at St Paul's school, London. In 1964, he joined the registrar's department of the Bank of England. He showed an interest in tennis from the age of three, encouraged by his father, also a Bank employee, who organised the annual Wimbledon qualifying competition at the Bank's sports club in Roehampton, London. Shales combined his tennis commitments beyond Wimbledon with his full-time job at the Bank, which he left in 1980. There was hardly an international event, including Davis cup ties, at which he did not officiate. He leaves a wife, Mel, and two daughters. · Jeremy John Shales, tennis umpire, born April 2 1943; died September 8 2005 