 Roger Draper, chief executive of the Lawn Tennis Association, insisted yesterday that no money would be offered to encourage Andy Murray to play in the Davis Cup in the future. Britain, minus their No1 player, duly slipped to a one-sided 4-1 defeat on the clay of the Parque Roca stadium against Argentina, an experience described by Draper, who joined the LTA in April 2006, as "painful". In yesterday's two dead rubbers- Argentina having established a winning 3-0 lead by winning the doubles on Saturday - Alex Bogdanovic squandered a 3-0 lead in the opening set, and a 5-2 advantage in the second, to lose 7-5, 7-5 against Jose Acasuso, a defeat that typified the 23-year-old's hugely disappointing Davis Cup career. However, Jamie Baker prevented a whitewash with a spirited if futile 7-6, 6-4 victory over Agustin Calleri. Strength in depth is not necessarily a prerequisite for winning the trophy but to have only one world-class singles player puts an almost impossible strain on any four-man team. It is possible, had he not cried off, that Andy Murray might have won both his singles here and teamed up with his brother, Jamie, to take the doubles. Not surprisingly he figured this was an improbable scenario and stayed at home before playing in this week's ATP event in Marseille. "It's all about his career and I fully support him on that," said Draper. "Of course we would have liked to have had him here. He does enjoy the Davis Cup and hopefully this was a one-off. But I would not pay him to play." Draper has not spoken to Murray since he decided not to play here. "I leave that to our captain, John Lloyd," he said. However, there remains annoyance that Murray chose to inform Lloyd of his absence via his agent, Patricio Apey, rather than a personal call. The format of the Davis Cup, and the demands it imposes, regularly draws criticism from players, and Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, the world's No1 and No2, have limited their participation in recent years. Yet it could be argued their loss is greater than that of the competition. Draper, like many before him, suggested that the Davis Cup should perhaps be played every two or four years. This is unlikely to happen for many reasons. The calendar will be slightly tweaked next year, while ranking points are set to be introduced, but principally the format will remain the same, and if players choose to put their careers ahead of their country then, according to the International Tennis Federation, so be it. To stay in the elite world group of 16 Britain now face a play-off in September. They will not know their opponents until mid-April and they are unlikely to be seeded. With Andy Murray playing, all is possible; without him, a return to the lower reaches of the competition beckons, with travels in Eastern Europe or Africa becoming the norm once again. Argentina will next play Sweden at home in the quarter-finals, and feel they have an excellent opportunity to win the trophy for the first time. Draper is confident that British tennis is on the right track and that the current crop of juniors will bear significant fruit: "The idea is to find five more Andy Murrays." As the LTA, albeit not in Draper's time, did not find Murray or Tim Henman, and nearly ruined Jamie Murray, it can only be hoped that the current regime, unlike its predecessors, actually delivers. Even if it does, it will not be for some considerable time yet. Bob Bryan put Olympic gold at the top of his wish list of double titles in 2008 after helping guide the United States to a 4-1 victory over Austria in their first-round defence of the Davis Cup. The 29-year-old and his twin brother Mike have won every major doubles title the sport has to offer, bar the Olympic Games. "If you put me on the spot and asked me to pick one we want to win most it would have to be the Olympics," Bryan said after winning the final singles rubber in Vienna. 