 Who would have guessed it? Lleyton Hewitt, the defending men's champion, spent more of the first week of the tournament on the Royal Wimbledon golf course than he did on the Wimbledon tennis courts. Improbably banished from the game's biggest event in the first round by Ivo Karlovic, a Croatian who is ranked 203 in the world, Hewitt sought solace trying his luck against a still ball rather than a moving one as he hung about in London only to support his girlfriend, Kim Clijsters, in the women's singles. He did pick up his rackets occasionally to practise on a hard court, the start of his preparation for the US Open, the year's final grand slam, which now represents his last chance to make something of 2003.  Hewitt's first-round stumble last Monday was, of course, a surprise, although only marginally more of one to some of us than his seven-match passage to the championship 12 months ago. In 2002, the man from Adelaide, who still looks more hyperactive adolescent than fully formed sports superstar, defied what are regarded as the prerequisites for success on grass. He has neither the size nor service power to measure up as a traditional Wimbledon champion and has a horror of going close to the net, which is the territory from where real grass-court players do most of their damage.  He pulled off his coup last year by having a relatively easy start to the tournament and then giving one of his great combative performances - the speciality that sets him apart - to eliminate Sjeng Schalken, who does have a proper grass-court game (as he is showing once again this year). He was so bristling with ambition by this stage that he overwhelmed his last two opponents, Tim Henman, who was palpably uncomfortable with his remodelled game, and David Nalbandian, who had wandered into the final with fewer credentials than Aaron Barschak had to enter Windsor Castle last weekend.  This time, his opening match looked even easier than last year's, but what Karlovic demonstrated was that grass does reward those who play authentic serve-and-volley tennis. And we must hope that enough players took note of this to try it some time, not push it towards becoming a museum piece by never even attempting to master it. We must hope also that those who can serve and volley but too often prefer not to - a certain Mr Henman comes to mind - were reacquainted with how rewarding it can be.  Much was made of Karlovic's height. (At 6ft 10in, he is officially the tallest man to have played at Wimbledon, but can we be absolutely sure that in the nineteenth century an even loftier young vicar didn't drop by to play a round or two?) Much was made, too, of the power of his serve. But what struck me was the way he moved in behind his serve, and it was his unwavering willingness to do this that unhinged Hewitt.  Hewitt denied afterwards that he did not do enough homework on Karlovic, who went on to lose in the third round. 'I don't think I could have done much more,' he said. 'He didn't have any different secrets that I wasn't aware of.' The fact is that however well prepared you are and however highly ranked you are - Hewitt is number two in the world - you are vulnerable as a baseliner on grass against someone who is prepared to crowd the net.  There is no reason why Hewitt cannot win Wimbledon again. He has had distractions this year - including a court battle with the Association of Tennis Professionals over what he claims were defamatory remarks by their chief executive Mark Miles - and his mind certainly seemed to wander at times last Monday. But it is likely he will find winning a second Wimbledon much more difficult now that Karlovic - lowly, mild-mannered, awkward Karlovic - has removed the myth of his invincibility. · You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk, or mail the Observer direct at  sport@observer.co.uk 