 Life isn't easy at the moment for those driving British tennis, with Wimbledon once again providing a nasty collision with reality. But they can hardly complain about all the (mostly bad) publicity they are receiving, and to be fair there is no evidence that they are, because they have been campaigning from the top of an open-top bus with extravagant flourishes to excite the crowd. Roger Draper, the man put in charge of turning around British tennis, is not one for hat, dark glasses, turned-up collar and a backseat behind tinted glass. Nor is he one for half measures. He has opted instead for such displays as the mass sackings that marked the start of his stewardship last year and the decision to pay for a top-line coach for Andy Murray despite the player's personal wealth galloping towards the £40million it cost to build the National Tennis Centre. This makes Draper an easy target, which is a pity because the debate should be less about the man than the actions he has taken to try to revive the British game. Revive might be the wrong verb because it carries with it a hint that a last glimmer of life still exists that can be re-energised, whereas British tennis has been moribund for so long that it might properly be regarded as a case for archaeologists. A brief history of British tennis reads like this: we invented the game in the 19th century, gave the world Wimbledon, which we dominated until Johnny Foreigner got the hang of playing it, enjoyed a brief golden era thanks to a genius called Fred Perry and have been watching the rest of the world stretch farther and farther ahead of us ever since. Tennis - as opposed to Wimbledon - has never really embedded itself in British culture and this is the problem that Draper and the Lawn Tennis Association should be addressing. Draper's contention that Murray needs to be heavily invested in if he is to help make tennis more than just a two-week sideshow each summer is, to say the least, a moot point. He is so extravagantly talented that the media, including a certain Judy Murray, will give him all the publicity he needs to become a beacon for the game. The money that has been spent on Murray and many others who have progressed beyond their formative years should have been invested in facilities and coaching at schools, clubs and in public spaces and on a relentless campaign to preach the gospel of tennis. This is the point at which LTA officials start shouting: 'That's exactly what we are doing.' But much more could have been spent if there had not been so much top-end investment. Questions should also be asked about whether the NTC is being properly used as a place to bring on young players rather than to waste time and money mollycoddling lost causes. Having said all this, it is worth considering the following: If Britain ever has had a proper tennis culture it was in the Twenties and Thirties when Perry rose to fame. His rise was facilitated by his having access to three clubs, the Brentham club in Ealing, the Herga club in Harrow and the Chiswick Park club, that were affordable for families with modest incomes. Of these clubs, only Brentham still exists. The other two disappeared when they were identified as profit-making opportunities by property speculators. Urban tennis courts are worth a lot of money. We might have to settle for having a nation of second-to-none property developers and sit back and enjoy watching the rest of the world share out the booty each Wimbledon fortnight. 