 There is no roll of honour for brave British first-round losers at Wimbledon but perhaps there ought to be. There would be no shortage of names on such a list and, after she held two match points on Martina Hingis yesterday, Naomi Cavaday's would now be one of them. The customary thrill rushed through Court Two when Cavaday twice threatened an upset at 4-5 in the second set against the five-times grand slam champion and the crowd realised that they were witnessing the annual ritual of a plucky Brit playing above herself against exalted opposition. When Cavaday finally lost 6-7, 7-5, 6-0, as many of her compatriots have done before her, the disappointment was familiar, too. The gap between coming close to victory in such circumstances and actually achieving success is far more significant than the 221 places which separate Hingis and Cavaday in the world rankings. It is also far wider. The 18-year-old Cavaday's performance will be celebrated, and so it should be. It is not her fault that she lost to a player whose career operates in a different world to her own, nor that she was stepping into the well funded shoes of so many of her compatriots at Wimbledon. She did not choke and did little wrong on those two chances she had, and until she ran out of mental and physical puff she played with an intelligence and panache which showed why she is widely regarded as the most naturally gifted of the current crop of British women. "I didn't bag it or roll over or anything," she said afterwards with justifiable pride. "I knew before the match that I had to raise my game to a level that I've never played at before. I managed to do that." As much as Cavaday deserves credit, it should be noted that Hingis was barely fit and, had it not been for her love of Wimbledon, probably would not have been playing at all. The Swiss admitted that she felt discomfort from the inflamed thigh bone which kept her out of the French Open, rated herself at only "60, 70%" fit and only started practising last Friday. It was a measure of how she wants this fortnight to be spent at the grand slam she won 10 years ago that she is willing to play under such circumstances, and it was that desire to survive the first round which kept her in yesterday's match. After a dreadful first few games, Hingis gradually began to trust her suspect femur enough to move to the ball with her usual elegant ease and retrieved two breaks of serve. She then mustered three separate set points at 4-5 which Cavaday saved with some determined serving. The teenager held her next service game to love and pulled away in the tie-breaker thanks to a combination of her own winners and Hingis's mistakes, born of lack of match practice. When Cavaday dropped her serve at the start of the second set the momentum seemed to have switched irrevocably, but she managed to break back to get to 4-4 and then began to force Hingis into more errors at 4-5, one of which brought forth a distinctly Anglo-Saxon expression of irritation from the Swiss player. Then came the match points that will haunt Cavaday in the coming days. A first serve saved Hingis on the first and a curling forehand winner averted the danger of defeat two points later. The slump of Cavaday's shoulders when they moved to 5-5 signalled the end of any hope of an upset. She did not win another game. "Somehow I never felt like, OK, she's on top of me. I was always hanging in there," said Hingis, who had already won four grand slam titles by the time she was Cavaday's age. "One point can be sometimes a long distance. We've had that in our sport in the past." We have indeed, but there is no honour roll for losers, only champions. The Cavaday facts Age 18 Birthplace Sidcup, Kent Club Bromley Tennis Academy Trains at Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Florida and National Tennis Centre in Roehampton Coach David Felgate Fitness trainer Yutaka Nakamura Favourite surface Outdoor hard Age turned pro 16 Age started playing 5 Career-high world ranking 232 Professional singles titles Mar 07 ITF/Orange, US, £12,500 Oct 06 ITF/Pune, India, £5,000 Fed Cup Record P3 W0 L3 Debut April 2007 v Luxembourg Wimbledon history 2006, 1st round Family background Brother Nick is a county player and is currently playing tennis at North Carolina State University in the US 