 For the second time this year British tennis found its expectations were not a match for Swedish reality. At the Australian Open Tim Henman, with the bottom half of the draw split asunder, lost in the fourth round against Jonas Bjorkman. Yesterday, at Birmingham's National Indoor Arena, Britain were beaten 3-2 in their Davis Cup world group first-round tie, having begun the day with a 2-1 lead, with both Henman and Greg Rusedski losing in the reverse singles.  Not "reverse" in the strictest sense of the word. The Davis Cup rules have been changed recently, allowing team captains to change matters on the third day. So it was that Thomas Johansson, the Australian Open champion, replaced Bjorkman for the final and decisive rubber against Rusedski, and duly won 4-6, 6-3, 7-5, 6-4, reproducing much of the form he had displayed in the Melbourne final against Russia's Marat Safin, particularly on the backhand return of serve.  But the real irony of this tie was that if Johansson had been 100% fit last Friday, then Enqvist may not have taken part at all. As it was he played as the Swedish No1, and defeated Rusedski and Henman in straight sets. Furthermore the Taraflex court, which replicated the surface in Basle where Henman won a title last year, perfectly suited Enqvist, too. He won in Basle two years ago, defeating Henman 6-1, 6-3 in the semi-finals. Yesterday he won equally comfortably, 6-4, 6-2, 6-4.  Ultimately, unless the surface is clay or grass, the speed and bounce of a court is only a matter of minor physical and technical adjustments anyway. Essentially Sweden won this tie for two reasons: they had the greater choice of players, and the players they used were mentally tougher. Saturday's five-set doubles victory by Henman and Rusedski over Johansson and Bjorkman had, at least superficially, appeared crucial but after starting brightly against Enqvist, Henman fell away sharply once the pressure was applied. He was spent.  Rusedski, knowing he had to win, had pumped himself up to the point of bursting against Johansson, unsettling the Swede at least initially, although it was always likely that once the British No2's adrenalin rush had subsided Johansson would take control. The Swede had lost the first set to Safin in Melbourne, so being 1-0 down to Rusedski clearly did not present an insurmountable obstacle.  This was the third time in the past four years that Britain had qualified for the world group, which comprises the elite 16 teams, and it was their third successive loss at this same stage. In 1999 they were 2-0 down to the US after the first day, and eventually lost 3-2. A year later in Ostrava, with Rusedski absent because of foot problems, Britain lost 4-1 to the Czech Republic, a defeat that emphasised the fact that without either Henman or Rusedski, the British team is not a competitive team at this level, or in all probability several levels below.  Had they beaten Sweden, and thus reached the quarter-finals, they would have assured themselves of an automatic place in the world group next year. Now they will have to play a qualifying round in September, effectively a relegation decider. Roger Taylor, Britain's Davis Cup captain, made the usual comforting post-defeat noises about having a "really good team", as well as warming to the prospect of players coming through. The reality is that Henman and Rusedski are edging past their prime and that there is precious little sign of any immediate replacements.  Alex Bogdanovich, who won a Futures event in Nottingham on Saturday, has undoubted promise but is still a junior. The gap between that and senior tennis is immense, with Britain having a singularly poor record in when it comes to bridging it. It is to be hoped that the 17-year-old Bogdanovich, like Henman, will make it, but it is a long shot.  Rusedski will be 29 in September, and in all probability Britain will be reduced to a one-man team, Henman, in the none too distant future. And that will be untenable. Having managed to rid himself of most of his injury worries, Rusedski has offered the opinion that he is playing the best tennis of his career. Clearly this is an illusion, or self-delusion, as his performances this weekend highlighted.  Enqvist brushed him aside with something approaching professional disdain while Johansson, once he had overcome his initial nerves - and even grand slam champions are subject to these in the context of a Davis Cup match - defeated Rusedski with some ease. As for Henman, his lack of mental fortitude is well recorded, and three intense matches in three days were simply too much for him.  It is to be hoped that Henman, 28 in September, and Rusedski get another chance at this level next year, but it is by no means a certainty. Had they defeated Sweden, the most successful Davis Cup nation over the past two decades, Britain would have had another home tie, this time against Russia's Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Safin. The opening was there; the opportunity was missed.  So now it is back to the ATP circuit in Marseille. And Rusedski's opponent in the first round? Thomas Johansson. 