 Normally the twirls would all have been the champion's. Usually the big-smile, big-noise moments would all have belonged to Venus Williams - the contester of six of the eight finals here this century and the name which is acquiring the aura of a Billie Jean King or a Martina Navratilova.  But this was very different from the previous returns that Williams has made to Centre Court. This time more of the applause was for a pale, unathletic-looking 19-year-old ranked 90 slots short of the main tour, who had never before played on Centre Court but who for about an hour competed on level terms with the greatest women's grass-court player of the millennium. Of course she was British, and of course the noise could not last. Nevertheless Naomi Cavaday did enough during a 7-6, 6-1 defeat to hope that one day it will, and to realise that she had taken some of the thunder away from the person for whom it had been intended. "I thought I might feel pretty lonely out there and would want to dig a hole for myself if things didn't go my way," said Cavaday, who then experienced a great transformation. "As soon as I walked on court I was pretty relaxed. I was comfortable, I was happy ... I've been hitting a big ball. I think that showed today." At the end, almost unbelievably, after Williams had shown everyone her long-legged swagger and her well practised swivel to all four corners, Cavaday felt that the crowd wanted something like that from her too. It was a surprised afterthought, but it was right. Yet hard as Cavaday hit her forehand, treacherous as her lefty serve was and bold as her spirit became, the more significant ingredients were those which emerged gradually from the woman who could win a fifth title and edge close to the list of the 10 most successful women's singles champions of all time. In the first set Williams was 3-1 down and within a point of going 4-2 down, something she admitted she had been "excited" to try to avoid. Even when she broke back in a stirring sixth game containing some beefy exchanges, she could not shake off the upstart, and the uncertain struggle continued until the last point of the tie-break. During this time Cavaday was boldly excellent but Williams a little ragged. Perhaps the American's encounter with a bumblebee, causing some unorthodox swishing and sidestepping, had made her falter from 40-0 in the first game. "I was about to serve. I felt something on my leg; I looked down and it was a bee, a big old bumblebee," she said. "I was trying to get it to go off. I don't know if they sting or not. Do they? The big bumblebees, do they?" Just once, she was told, bringing the response: "I was trying to get it off without getting stung. You know how they usually fly back at you." Her description was humorous but the immediate outcome was serious, in that it triggered a sting from her opponent, Cavaday going on to win the opening game and holding on to the advantage for 20 minutes. Williams has started slowly before, including last year when she was below par for most of the first week and ill for part of the second. She has a rare capacity to come good suddenly, as if rediscovering a hidden conduit to the memories and dreams that have inspired her here in the past. But it is also about hand-eye coordination and timing. That started to improve in the second set, when she began to clump the ball with frightening venom, suddenly looking as if she were all of her 6ft 1in and still growing. The big serve and the big flat groundstrokes became harder to return, reminding everyone how she has been able to hide small flaws in her swing which sometimes get exposed on slower surfaces. "I think I know how to play on this surface," she had said beforehand, and now it seemed so. "I feel like I know when to play high or when to play low. I know pretty much how the ball's going to bounce." The second set took little more than 20 minutes. Williams smiled at Cavaday at the end, uttered nice words and avoided saying she had never really been too bothered, though that might have been so. Indeed, Williams' mind had not always been on the occasion of her reappearance as reigning champion on Ladies' Day. "It was really about the moment pretty much, so I didn't think about cobwebs or what had happened a Wimbledon or two ago," she said. She meant no slight to her opponent. Asked what Cavaday needed to do to get to her level, she answered: "Train with Mr Williams." Quite a compliment. 