 Andy Murray ruthlessly eliminated the American Robert Kendrick without losing a game in the Hall of Fame Tennis Championships in Newport, Rhode Island, yesterday. The 19-year-old's 6-0, 6-0 victory came less than two hours after he had defeated Sam Querrey in a match spread over three days because of poor weather. After spending a little over 70 minutes on court in a 7-5, 6-2 win over Querrey, Murray quickly returned to face the wild card Kendrick, who was seemingly in an enviable position having had a rest day. However, Murray raced into a 3-0 lead before a see-saw fourth game saw both players squander opportunities. Eventually it was the Scot who took advantage of poor serving by Kendrick to go into a 4-0 lead and he went on to win the next two games, breaking the American's serve again to claim the first set in a little over half an hour. The second set followed the same pattern. In the 10th game Kendrick recovered from 40-0 down to serve for the opportunity to get on the scoreboard. Murray ,however, repelled the American to open up a 4-0 lead and served out for the match after less than an hour against a player who pushed the eventual finalist Rafael Nadal to five sets at Wimbledon two weeks ago. The Scot's serve was ruthlessly efficient and he will now face Justin Gimelstob in the semi-finals as he aims to become the first top seed to win the competition. Justine Henin-Hardenne's replacement in Belgium's Fed Cup team, Kirsten Flipkens, today opens their semi-final challenge against Jill Craybas of the United States. The draw also paired the US Open champion Kim Clijsters against Jamea Jackson, with the return singles taking place tomorrow. Belgium's Caroline Maes and Leslie Butkiewicz will meet Vania King and Mashona Washington in the doubles. Belgium beat the champions Russia 3-2 in April with Henin-Hardenne and Clijsters in the team but the French Open champion pulled out of the semi-final saying she was "mentally and physically" drained after losing the Wimbledon final. 