 Roger Federer, the world's outstanding player, admitted that he had double-checked with Tim Henman during the US Open to make sure the British No1 was not going to change his mind suddenly and play against Switzerland in the Davis Cup world group play-off that begins here today. "With Tim and Greg Rusedski playing it would have been a horrible draw," Federer said yesterday. "That's why I wanted to make sure." Henman, Britain's No1, decided to stop playing in this competition at the beginning of the year, while this tie resulted directly from Federer's own choice to opt out of his country's world group first-round tie against the Netherlands, which Switzerland lost 3-2. After a decade of cup battling, Henman withdrew in an attempt, in vain as it transpired, to try to preserve his increasingly suspect back. Federer's absence from his country's colours in March was all about preserving his world No1 status. The country v career argument will be ongoing for Federer, who strongly believes the Davis Cup should be played every other year rather than annually, although he was always going to appear this time. All that essentially leaves Britain in search of putting as much pressure as possible on the 20-year-old Swiss No2, Stanislas Wawrinka who in three appearances for his country has yet to win a singles. Today he will play the 18-year-old Scot Andy Murray, making his Davis Cup singles debut. "We were a little shocked," said Federer, who had been expecting to play Murray himself, with Wawrinka against Rusedski. To this effect Wawrinka had been gearing himself up to play a left-hander. However Jeremy Bates, Britain's Davis Cup captain, chose to leave Rusedski out of his opening-day calculations, throwing in another Scot, Alan Mackin, 24, in the opening rubber against Federer with the brief: "Go for it, and be prepared to risk everything." Mackin's only other appearance in the Davis Cup came in 2003 when he lost in straight sets against the Australian Mark Philippoussis in Sydney. Mackin's selection this time is because he plays regularly on clay, although of his 15 starts in various competitions this year he has lost 13 times in the first round and is ranked world No262. The world No1 is hardly quaking in his boots and was so relaxed yesterday that he dispensed with the official translator for the French, German, Italian and English conference and did it himself. It was suggested the great man might be feeling a smidgen of pressure with the expectation that he would win both his singles and tomorrow's doubles with Yves Allegro. He smiled and flicked his eyebrows: "I'm rather used to dealing with pressure." Six grand slam titles, with two this year at Wimbledon and New York, vouch for that all right. Working from the premise that whoever played Federer today would lose, Bates decided to rest the 32-year-old Rusedski to have him fresh for the doubles, when he is due to team up with Murray, and then for what the British captain hopes will be the deciding final singles between the No2s on Sunday, when Rusedski will replace Mackin against Wawrinka. Federer, who is not given to being unduly devious, suggested he was rather happier playing Mackin rather than Murray today, and that Wawrinka would prefer playing Murray to Rusedski first time out. This may, of course, be pure bluff, and Bates may have pulled off a winning trick. One thing is for sure: the second of today's matches between Murray, ranked No110, and Wawrinka, ranked No60, will be a thorough test of nerve and character for both these inexperienced players. And this may favour Murray, who thrives on the big occasion, whereas Wawrinka, according to the Swiss, is a little flaky. Providing he wins, and Murray accepts it will be "an extremely tough match", then the doubles will be a match Britain will surely have to win. "I'm confident of winning my three matches, even though clay is my least favourite surface," said Federer. And "least favourite" in Federer's terms is hardly a comfort to this British team. Today: R Federer v A Mackin; S Wawrinka v A Murray. Tomorrow: Federer and Y Allegro v G Rusedski and Murray (subject to change). 