 "I don't believe for one minute that Rafael Nadal knew where Andy Murray's next shot was coming from. Not for one minute." John Lloyd, Britain's Davis Cup captain and a former Australian Open finalist, yesterday joined a throng of players, former players and coaches who were thrilled by the performance of the British teenager against the Spanish world No2, even though he was beaten in five sets in the Rod Laver Arena. Murray will rise to a career-high No14 in the world next week, with Lloyd expecting the 19-year-old to be in the top 10 at the end of the year. "I saw John McEnroe when he was 17, and he was already doing the sort of different stuff that made you go 'wow', stuff that did not come out of a textbook. "It was all invention, and Andy is like that. He leans into the ball and caresses it back deep, then all of a sudden he cracks it. You've got to have some special hand-eye coordination to do what he can do. You can't teach a 10-year-old to play like McEnroe or Murray. It's a gift that does not come along very often." Coaches and players alike will now be analysing the match and trying to identify patterns and repetitions in Murray's play, searching for weaknesses and those areas of the court where he might be vulnerable. Lloyd believes it will be a tough task, as does Jim Courier, twice the Australian Open champion. "Murray earned a lot of locker-room respect," said the American. "He's the real deal." Lloyd added: "I don't know how you can become used to him. Andy can change his shot a split second before he executes it, so you can never be certain what is coming. And there will be even more things that will come out of his game when he fills out. His whole toughness and hardness will improve. We are probably two years away from him being at his physical peak, and when that happens he's going to be a scary prospect - frightening." Murray is one of a group of talented youngsters chasing the world No1, Roger Federer, including the two Frenchmen Richard Gasquet and Gaël Monfils, Novak Djokovic of Serbia, and Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic, and excluding Nadal, still only 20, who is some way ahead of this quintet. "I've had phone calls from people who watched Andy's performance against Rafa and they were totally blown away," said Lloyd. "Word will spread, it was one of the great performances. "Monfils hasn't the hardness that Murray has. He's going to have great matches, and we're going to have fun watching him, but he's never going to win a grand slam, or even get close. All of them have weaknesses, everybody does. I had thought Djokovic was maybe the best of that group, but watching him the other day against Federer and then comparing him with the best of Murray, then I think Andy's right on top of that list." Lloyd, like Murray's coach, Brad Gilbert, believes that grass will be the Scot's best surface, although the youngster favours the hard courts, particular in the United States. "Ninety-five per cent of the tour can play on hard courts, whereas only 10 per cent know how to play on grass, and Andy is one of those. Guys go into Wimbledon knowing they cannot win, so I like Andy's odds." Judy Murray remembers her son, then aged 11, watching Australia's Lleyton Hewitt on television and telling her that he knew how to beat him. This tactical astuteness is integral to his game. Eight out of 10 players walk out on court against Federer believing they cannot beat him. Not so Murray, who along with Nadal was the only player to defeat the Swiss last year. "Andy already has the reputation as being a bloody difficult player to beat and now, after the Nadal match, there will be a different respect for him. Some of the lesser players will have a fear factor, and it's a wonderful thing when a guy is scared of you," said Lloyd. "Andy just has to get tougher and harder, because there are not that many for him to fear in the current top 10. I think he can carry Britain through into the world group of the Davis Cup on his own. We have a great gift, and we are very fortunate." Generation next Marcos Baghdatis (Cyprus) Age 21 World ranking 11 Career wins 1 Runner-up at last year's Australian Open before winning the China Open. The first Cypriot ever to reach an ATP tour event final, in Basle two years ago Tomas Berdych (Czech Republic) Age 21 World ranking 13 Career titles 2 Reached quarter-finals of Athens Olympics, beating Roger Federer along the way, and has beaten the world No2, Rafael Nadal, three times in the past two years Novak Djokovic (Serbia & Mont) Age 19 World ranking 15 Career titles 3 Reached quarter-finals of 2006 French Open and won decisive rubber in April's Davis Cup win over Great Britain by beating Greg Rusedski Richard Gasquet (France) Age 20 World ranking 17 Career titles 4 Made grand slam debut at 2002 French Open aged 15, and in 2003 became the youngest player to finish the year inside ATP top 100. Currently the French No1 Gaël Monfils (France) Age 20 World ranking 59 Career titles 1 Finished 2004 as world No1 junior, winning three of the four junior grand slams. Beat Baghdatis in second round of this Australian Open, then beaten by Gasquet in the third 