 No Davis Cup captain can afford to believe a tie is lost before it is played, but John Lloyd, on announcing the team for Britain's world group first-round encounter with Argentina in Buenos Aires in three weeks' time, admitted that "nobody expects us to win". Lloyd is a supreme optimist, and a lucky one at that. Before the world group play-off last year Britain's opponents, Croatia, lost both their leading players, Mario Ancic and Ivan Ljubicic. Such good fortune is beyond measure in a team competition where the line between victory and defeat is frequently paper-thin. However, in this instance Lloyd and his team will progress to the quarter-finals only if the world turns upside-down. Argentina have 11 players inside the top 100, enough to field a third XI and remain confident of victory. Factor in their clay courts and even the slimmest of British hopes appears an exaggeration. This week began badly for Lloyd when Andy Murray, his only trump card, lost to France's Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, although Lloyd preferred to see it as a freak result. "I think Andy will be in the top five by the end of the year and his brother, Jamie, will be in the top 20 for the doubles." It is a belief from which he cannot waver, for the Murrays are the British team and will be for the foreseeable future, or as long as Andy chooses to play in the competition. Britain were rarely anything more than a two-man team when Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski welded themselves into a useful doubles unit. Unfortunately Jamie Murray is a doubles specialist pure and simple, leaving Britain short of a singles player. The two Lloyd has selected are Alex Bogdanovic and Jamie Baker, both of whom are likely to be out of their depth at this level of competition with a fiercely partisan crowd eager to seize on their every mistake. At the moment Baker's dogged resilience seems likely to get the nod over Bogdanovic's brittle talents. Britain will set up a training camp in Viña del Mar a week before the tie, although Andy Murray may not join them until later. "It's a different matter for the younger players in the team," said Lloyd. "I can push them a bit and if they say no they might not be in the team. "I've said to Andy that I would like to see him in Chile and he's going to think about it. It would be great if he did come for some practice matches and training but, if he doesn't, Andy's a big enough pro to show up in Buenos Aires on the Sunday in good shape." 