 Tim Henman is in danger of a serious plunge in the rankings from which it will be hard to recover if he does not improve soon.  Yesterday he suffered his third defeat in a row when he lost 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 to Dominik Hrbaty, the world No26 from Slovakia, in the first round of the Masters Series. It was the career equivalent of another step towards the edge of Beachy Head.  Henman has massive points to defend at the upcoming US Open. He approaches it with a crisis of confidence which will have been deepened as some fine second-set form was followed by a stunning final-set collapse. Hard as he appeared to try, his appetite must be questioned.  Henman volunteered that he might have an attitude problem when playing at Indian Wells earlier this year. He then threw a prolonged wobbly at a line decision in Hamburg which cost him the match and used much more audible industrial language than usual during his Wimbledon exit. All were worryingly grumpy firsts.  Here there were the familiar infuriating up-and-down patterns to his game, which saw him lead by a set and 4-2. He had produced some adventurous charges, sometimes completed with angled volleys which made the crowd gasp.  But then he played a shaky eighth game, concluded by a double-fault, and everything changed. Four games later came two disappointing ground strokes, both into the net under moderate pressure, to lose the second set.  Four games after that Henman was in trouble again. He lost that game and responded by launching a spare ball into the 23rd tier, gaining a code-violation warning.  "I've been practising well with my coach Paul [Annacone] and it's just a question of translating that into the match situations," Henman said.  Henman came here not expecting too much. He has not played well all year and, apart from not having won a match in nearly seven weeks, he had a draw here requiring him to beat men of a top-20 standard in every round in the same quarter as his nemesis, Lleyton Hewitt.  Hewitt has risen to second seed because Roger Federer is having another week's rest. This has made Rafael Nadal, 18, the favourite for a Masters Series event for the first time.  It is easy to understand why Federer is resting further after his Wimbledon triumph. Last year he arrived here tired and still won it. But the following week he lost exhaustedly to Hrbaty in Cincinnati and then laboured physically for much of the rest of the year.  Federer will resume in Cincinnati next week after a 1½-month break. 