 Tim Henman found himself confronted by a very determined man with an unpleasantly vivid memory to erase in the second round of the Masters Series here yesterday. David Nalbandian endured some predictably over-the-top scenes of British patriotism in the fourth round of Wimbledon as he groaned his way to defeat with a strained stomach. Now, with musculature impressively intact, the Argentinian top-spun the ball about freely and visibly enjoyed his revenge by 6-4, 6-4. The keys were Nalbandian's rock-solid concentration, which showed no signs of wavering despite a 105-minute second-set rain delay which gave Henman time to regroup, and his ability to handle the Briton's serve, which he broke four times. Henman needed to be at his best to withstand this and he was not up to it. His first serve was less consistent than last week, when he won in Washington, and after dropping his opening service game he spent most of the match trying to play catch-up. This did enable him to show just how well he can sometimes contain the best ground strokers in the world but it was not a policy which is likely to bring long-term success. Henman said he felt less sprightly than usual. His left knee was bothering him and his movement, he thought, was not so good. This might have been the legacy of his hard-court preparation, which was interrupted by tonsillitis, and an unexpectedly long first tournament of this section of the tour last week. "I served really really well then and now I didn't," he said, though he might have, had not Nalbandian made him pay when it did not scintillate. Even more than before his shoulder operation the serve has become the thermometer of Henman's game, and one of the reasons it displayed temperatures as variable as Quebec's storm-and-sunshine climate was the way in which Nalbandian would step in to pressurise it. Even through his inconsistencies, however, Henman showed plenty of appetite. He twice broke back in the first set and nearly did so again when Nalbandian was serving for it. He had him at 30-40, at which point the Argentinian showed his versatility, producing a serve-half-volley-volley combination which saved the break-back point. It was Henman's first defeat in seven outings on the North American circuit but he showed no signs of gloom; he now has time to get fresher for Cincinnati next week. "It's never a positive to lose," he said. "But [after his long injury break] I have a lot to gain and not so much to lose and I want to go on enjoying myself and working hard." 