  Losing to the world's number 79 in your first grasscourt match of the year less than a fortnight before the start of Wimbledon may not appear in the manual of How to Win The Big One. Tim Henman was perfectly entitled, though, to maintain that his defeat by Karol Beck at Queen's last Wednesday would have no bearing on his 2004 Wimbledon campaign.  It so happened that the 2002 Wimbledon champion, Lleyton Hewitt, was making roughly the same point when talking to Observer Sport the day before Beck undid Henman with a surprisingly mature grasscourt game. Hewitt recalled that his fellow-Australian Mark Philippoussis had lost in the first round at Queen's last year and went on to reach the Wimbledon final. He might also have remembered that in 2001, Cristiano Caratti, a 31-year-old Italian qualifier ranked 190 in the world, upset Goran Ivanisevic in the opening round at Queen's. Ivanisevic described the defeat as a catastrophe, but barely three weeks later had completed perhaps the most memorable passage to the men's title in Wimbledon history.  Queen's is a little different from Wimbledon. It plays more like a hard court than the lawns of the All England club, which partly accounts for the lowly young Brit Ian Flanagan surprising everyone by picking off two serve-and-volleyers, including Philippoussis, at Queen's last week. Henman knows as well as anyone the idiosyncrasies, most notably the variable bounce, that make Wimbledon a very particular challenge and if he were offered a rematch against Beck anywhere he would probably choose the tournament in which he has made the second week in each of the past eight years.  The main thing is that over the next week Henman will have the chance to calibrate his game to grass after his extended run on clay at the French Open. 'Flip [Philippoussis] proved it last year,' said Hewitt. 'He loses at Queen's in the first round to Richard Krajicek, goes and works on his game for a week and a half and looks like a totally different player when he gets to Wimbledon.   'If you can get through those first couple of rounds at Wimbledon and build on it I don't think it makes a hell of a lot of difference [how long you survive at Queen's].' Hewitt, still only 23, but coming up to his sixth Wimbledon, has become an experienced Henman watcher in the two-week build-up to Wimbledon. He admires how the British number one conducts himself during this fraught time.  'I think Tim's probably put under a lot more pressure than Flip or I am at the Australian Open,' he said, crediting this to the fact that he and Pat Rafter have both given Australian tennis fans a taste of grand-slam success in recent years.  'I guess English tennis is waiting for that grand-slam champion to come along and Tim's obviously the best chance going around - and has been for some time now,' added Hewitt. 'The way he handles the situation, the way he comes back and plays extremely well at Wimbledon every year is a credit to him. He's pretty much had no bad results. Even if he never wins Wimbledon it's a pretty amazing record what he's done.'  Asked if Henman would be a popular winner in the players' locker room, Hewitt said: 'Tim gets along with everyone. He's a very nice guy, both on and off the court. I think every one knows the pressure and expectation that's put on him at this time of the year and everyone respects how well he handles it. 'He'd fully deserve it if he came away with the Wimbledon crown.'  So much for the pleasantries, now for the reality check. 'He's playing well,' agreed Hewitt, 'but I don't think it's going to make it any easier for him. There are a lot of tough players who are capable of winning it. Tim's always going to do well, it's just whether in the latter stages you get the breaks. Against Ivanisevic in the semis [in 2001], the weather went totally against him. It's little things that end up turning a grand slam.'  Who would have guessed that two Brits would have progressed further than Henman at Queen's - and neither of them would have been named Rusedski? In the end, Flanagan's limitations were expertly exposed by Sebastien Grosjean, but the 23-year-old Jonny Marray's game looked good throughout his narrow defeat by Hewitt. He is no Henman, but may prove capable of causing at least a few ripples.  You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk, or mail the Observer direct at  sport@observer.co.uk 