 Tim Henman is on the brink of quitting tennis, dogged by a back injury that may or not be a reaction to years of performing the same awkward fist-pumping gesture after winning a point. The good news is that he needn't worry too much about surviving the 25 years or so until he qualifies for his state pension. Henman is an unusually wealthy quite-good tennis player. His personal fortune is estimated at around £16m, which is really quite something for a man who has never reached the final of a Grand Slam tournament. A significant chunk of this is derived from the blue-chip sponsorship deals that have piled up since he first became British number one. Most recently there's the gig with Adidas ("Tim never gives up, and we like that," says its puff on his website, which may need a little rejigging now that he is, apparently, giving up). Jaguar has weighed in with a £1m deal to drive their cars. Ariel has been a long-standing supporter, as have Slazenger and Robinson's Barley Water. Last year alone, Henman earned £1.42m, which is only slightly less than Stuart Rose, CEO of Marks & Spencer. This is despite the fact that Henman didn't get past the third round of a single Grand Slam or Masters tournament and was actually injured for much of the season. Such is the happy lot of a British tennis number one, a position Henman occupied for 10 years off and on, until being toppled decisively by Andy Murray in February last year. We may be distinctly third division on the playing side, but tennis is still a fantastically productive earner in Britain, in the men's game at least. Britain is a sporting nation, and tennis remains extremely high-profile - disproportionately, some say - largely thanks to its blanket coverage on the BBC for three weeks in June. This is why Greg Rusedski's sudden conversion to Britishness was an extremely canny career move: as domestic number one, his earnings would have trounced anything coming his way as the world's leading Canadian. Unfortunately for Rusedski, he made the switch just as Tim's star began to rise. Some have speculated that financial security may have come too easily to Henman. Was he, when it came down to it, really hungry enough to win a major title? Was he ever as desperate to succeed as the generation of Serbs currently swarming up the world rankings? But it is perhaps unfair to speculate along these lines. Henman certainly always looks like he is trying very hard - Adidas would expect no less - and during this summer's Wimbledon, he criticised the next generation of British players for not training enough. There is another point here. The wealth in UK tennis is very firmly concentrated at the top of the pyramid. And while the British number 12 may be stacking shelves in Costcutter part-time, he is also not exactly racing up the rankings with a ravenous glint in his eye. Either way, the future looks secure for Tim and original Twag (tennis wife and/or girlfriend) Lucy. There's no need to become a PE teacher or pub landlord just yet. In fact, there seems no reason for the flow of endorsements to dry up at all. And if all else fails, there is always that spot cosying up next to Sue Barker on the BBC tennis sofa. 