 Interviewing Lleyton Hewitt is, you imagine, just a little bit like playing against him. He speaks almost shyly, looks, if anything, younger than his years, but don't be fooled. No sooner have you asked a question than the answer's back past you and he's moving forward, all energy, waiting to rip into the next. He fidgets, pulls at his shirt, fixes you with the edge of his stare, challenging you to throw something at him he can't deal with - and then looks a little disdainful when the best you can offer is a lobbed question about his girlfriend or his back-to-front cap or his haircut. In a sport where all the talk is of 'focus', the 20-year old Australian is already some thing of a legend for his intensity. John McEnroe says: 'I see a little of myself in Hewitt, only more so.' Andre Agassi, his potential quarter-final opponent this week, speaks with amused awe at Hewitt's level of on-court commitment. The first time he played him, and lost, he said: 'I didn't give him enough respect. I think I was convinced he was going to go away.'  The latest player to feel the full force of this delusion was the big-hitting American Taylor Dent. Having been blitzed off Centre Court for a set and a half by Dent's Wimbledon record-breaking 140mph serving on Thursday, Hewitt simply ratcheted up his resolve, told himself, after a rain break, 'thou shalt pass' and proceeded to do so with scary certainty along both lines. He looked lost in that match twice - at the end of the first set and the end of the fourth - but both players knew there was really only ever one winner. It was similar yesterday, when Hewitt worked hard to despatch the Moroccan Younes El Aynaoui in four sets.  Hewitt says this self-belief comes naturally - 'I'm not a guy who needs to read motivation books' - though he admits that his background in Aussie Rules helped - his father, uncle and grandfather were all pro players and Hewitt, though slight in stature, had the balance, pace and aggression to continue that line. He chose tennis at 13, having come to Europe with the Australian junior squad and won three tournaments on clay, a surface he had never seen before. Still, he plays as if constantly frustrated that it is not a contact sport. The quickness of reaction in his legs is one of the natural wonders of Australia, along with Shane Warne's wrist and Ian Thorpe's size seventeens.  In the past, he says, some players have tried to use his homegrown competitiveness against him, to wind him up. 'Most,' he says, smiling, 'have regretted it. I make sure that I never take a step back for anyone.'  This ability to catalyse on-court pressure into adrenaline - 'to get himself really pumped' - has earned him a comparison with Jimmy Connors. He is happy enough with the idea. 'A lot of players play as if the crowd is not there, try to block it out,' he says. 'Like Connors I've always tried to use it to my advantage.' Unlike Connors, though, he has done so and remained a popular figure in the locker room, if not always on court.  Even when not competing in his beloved Davis Cup there is always a sense watching Hewitt that he feels as if he is playing for Australia as much as for himself. 'I like to stick with the Aussies on tour,' he says. 'They're all like brothers to me.'  He was brought into the Australian Davis Cup set-up at 15, listened to Tony Roche's advice about his game on court and absorbed John Newcombe's wisdom about how to approach it off court. His immediate mentor though is Pat Rafter, of whom he speaks with a kind of reverence - 'He has always been such a wonderful example to me in everything he does' - and in the knowledge of a very Australian sense of responsibility. If Rafter does retire this year as he is hinting, Hewitt, from Adelaide, feels it it is his solemn Ocker duty to pick up the tradition and start winning Grand Slams.  He believes he is more than ready to make that step, too, though he is making no particular promises about this week: 'The real pressure on me now is to make sure I start reaching semis and finals,' he says. 'It was a huge step for me last year to make the semis of the US Open last year, and being there that last weekend, playing Sampras on what they call Super Saturday, it doesn't get much bigger than that.'  On that occasion, despite having chances to win, Hewitt did not quite have the experience to make it tell, though the damage he inflicted was no doubt a factor in Sampras's comprehensive defeat by the Russian Marat Safin in the following day's final.  Watching him begin to dismantle Sampras's grass-court invincibility at Queen's for the second successive year a fortnight ago, it was hard not to be struck by Hewitt's ever-growing assurance that the future was already in the hands of his generation. 'There is a group of four or five of us,' he says, thinking of Safin and Federer and Ferrero, as well as Kuerten, 'who I can see competing for the Slams for the next seven years or so.'  He feels he has nothing to fear within that group. 'I do now believe I can match it with any guy, any day on any surface. So I have a lot more' - he smiles - ' even more confidence.' Though he has not employed it much yet at Wimbledon, he says he's been working on an all-court game, getting in to the net more, trying to win some cheaper points, 'just to give myself that option.'  He is anyway, a natural volleyer, as his US Open doubles title proved. 'I've been working a lot on my serve, so if you go into a five-set match and you are holding your serve easily, it takes some of the physical pressure off. But I felt comfortable as soon as I came here last year, and I'm fortunate that we play our Davis Cup matches in Australia on grass.'  This comfort zone is enhanced by Hewitt's ongoing romance with Kim Clijsters, who after her French Open final is also one of the players to beat at Wimbledon this year. He's been watching her matches when he can, but he says that the schedules generally mean that they don't see much of each other during tournaments.  They practise with each other a little and both have learned from the other's temperament. Clijsters says she now takes some of Hewitt's never-say-die aggression on court with her. He says: 'Kim has helped me to stay a bit calmer in the easier matches, which I need. She relaxes me around the big tournaments.'  Whether he is relaxed enough to get all the way through the coming week will depend to a large degree on his battle of wills with Agassi, but he certainly believes he can do it. 'Seven great matches in two weeks: I know I'm capable.'  He looks at me to see if I'm going to argue. I'm not.  'Beauty,' he says, and he's up and off, more than ready to take on all-comers. 