 For once, when the loudspeakers trumpeted the week's fastest serve, it really meant something. It was not just because the player who had served the hardest had also produced the week's most notable result but because that player is Greg Rusedski. Only 18 months ago the British No2's career seemed at a premature end because of the stress caused by delivering such bombshells but here, in the second round of the Open de Marseille, he unleashed a serve officially recorded at 147.3mph while beating Fabrice Santoro. It was one of the quickest on the ATP tour since Rusedski hit the fastest serve ever recorded - 149 mph at Indian Wells - nearly four years ago. And, he claims, the once ailing back is fine.  Rusedski's climb back to within sight of the world's top 20 while nursing a long-term injury and remodelling his action has been remarkable. Research suggests that a minimum of 10,000 identical motions is required even to begin to acquire the "muscle memory" which makes a stroke habitual, something usually impossible once a player's style has matured.  To achieve this at the age of 28 Rusedski has managed a near miracle. But near may not be enough. There are times when he uses the lower toss and supportive left leg movement learned with his bio-mechanist Brad Langevad, and other times when Rusedski's former, higher action re-imposes itself. This means that, under pressure, there can be two different motions trying to assert themselves and a risk of the serve becoming more brittle.  Rusedski bridles at the suggestion. "I have worked very hard at changing it and feel that I am close to getting back to the standard I was before," he says, implying that we should regard it all positively. With what he has achieved so far, perhaps we should. But in terms of being a grand slam contender again he may still be short of the target.  No sooner did Juan Carlos Ferrero make it known that his target is to become world No1 than he was beaten in the quarter-finals by the 32-year-old Cédric Piolione. The top-seeded Spaniard appears to have recovered from the knee injury which kept him out of the Australian Open but lack of match practice became evident in the penultimate game when he projected two double faults and an appalling drive volley, effectively consigning him to his 6-7, 6-4, 7-5 defeat.  By contrast the titleholder Yevgeny Kafelnikov looked not only in solid form but unusually relaxed, even managing a smile after beating Marc Rosset 6-3, 7-6.  Tim Henman, who withdrew from a tournament for the first time through illness here this week, is feeling better. He practised yesterday and should fly today to Rotterdam where both he and Rusedski are competing.  · You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, as sharp or as stupid as you like, to the sport.editor@. 