Shahid Afridi took five wickets as Pakistan hammered Kenya by 205 runs in their opening match of the World Cup at Hambantota Kenya have called for Zimbabwe to be thrown out of the African Cricket Union Life in a refugee camp is one long fight for survival, as these eyewitness reports describe New Zealand dismissed Kenya for a record low total at Kingsmead to begin their World Twenty20 campaign with a crushing nine-wicket win. The Kenyans, whose previous apppearance in Durban was for the 2003 World Cup semi-final, never recovered from a disastrous start and were eventually dismissed for a paltry 73 - beating the previous Twenty20 international low of 79, by Australia against England at the Rose Bowl in 2005. Kenya captain Steve Tikolo has called on the ICC to let his side play more one-dayers against Test opposition. Duncan Fletcher emphasised the importance of the result as England beat Kenya by seven wickets to reach the Super Eight. Join Andy at 1pm. Afternoon then everyone. There are very few things that could have made me skip bright-eyed out of bed this morning, not after last night, but, lying headaching and belly grumbling under my duvet this morning, the thought of the cricket we have coming up today was the best possible tonic. Apart, maybe, from a fry-up a paracetamol. England are more than capable of losing to Kenya, and a bad day today could ruin the creaky Fletcher/Vaughan regime for good.  Cricket: Bangladesh won the third ODI by 20 runs to secure a 3-0 lead in the four-match series. Cricket: Shahid Afridi took five wickets as Kenya were bowled out for just 94, further evidence of the need to change the format of the Champions Trophy. September 12: Despite missing Sachin Tendulkar, India cruised to victory over the minnows with Sourav Ganguly in glittering form. March 13: The ICC will hold a formal hearing into allegations that Kenya's Maurice Odumbe had inappropriate contact with a bookmaker. March 16: In Kenya cricket used to be something for the whites and Hindi speakers: with their World Cup success that is changing. India win by six wickets  Yuvraj Singh hits the winning runs and India edge closer to a semi-final spot. Kenya played superbly and had India in serious trouble at stages, but in the end, class told. Thanks for your company. I'm off to salvage what I can of my Friday night. To no great surprise, the International Cricket Council today rejected New Zealand's request to switch their match against Kenya and awarded the points to the home team.  