 Tim Henman crushed fellow veteran Jonas Bjorkman to reach the second round of the Rogers Cup Masters Series event in Toronto - and Andy Murray could be his next opponent.  In their 10th career meeting, Henman levelled his head-to-head with Bjorkman at five wins each with a 6-2, 6-3 victory.  Next month will see Henman turn 32, while Swedish player Bjorkman is already 34, and the older man made a terrible start, dropping his first two service games. That gave Henman the impetus he needed to surge through the opening set, and the gradual disintegration of Bjorkman's first serve allowed the British number two to close out a convincing victory.  Tantalisingly he could now face Murray, the 19-year-old who has replaced him as leading Briton on the tour and who reached the Washington final at the weekend under new coach Brad Gilbert. Murray must get past 12th seed David Ferrer of Spain in the first round to make the all-British clash happen, with that match due to played tomorrow.  Henman has faced Murray only once on the ATP tour, indoor at Basle last October where the Scottish teenager won in three sets. Earlier Greg Rusedski suffered a sixth consecutive defeat as he was halted in the first round by Mikhail Youzhny.   Canadian-born Rusedski chose the event in Toronto for his first appearance on the ATP tour since losing in straight sets to Russian Marat Safin in the opening round at Wimbledon in June. Safin's fellow Russian Youzhny became more dominant against Rusedski as today's match progressed and won through 6-4, 6-2. The 24-year-old Youzhny, more than eight years Rusedski's junior, seized the only break of a tight first set in the ninth game, and then broke immediately at the start of the second. A further break in the fifth game put Youzhny 4-1 ahead, and victory became a formality. Rusedski - without a win since the second week of May - turns 33 next month and proved incapable of finding a way back into the match against the younger man, Youzhny clinching victory with a high-kicking ace. 