 The rivalry between Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski will reach its most critical point tomorrow when they meet for the first time in a grand slam tournament. The prize for the winner is a place in the last 16 of the Australian Open and perhaps much more. "I've always felt that whoever emerged from the part of the draw containing me, Tim and Mark Philippoussis had the chance to go all the way," said Rusedski.  Henman reached the third round with a 6-3, 6-4, 6-1 victory over the erratic Vladimir Voltchkov of Belarus and Rusedski, playing some of the most controlled and intelligent tennis of his life, had a conclusive 7-6, 6-3, 6-4 win over Philippoussis, the last Australian left in the men's draw.  Philippoussis, who was generous to Rusedski in defeat, believes Henman will win: "I feel Tim has his number." But Rusedski's form is undoubtedly the better, with Henman, despite two straight-sets wins here, never looking entirely at ease. "To frustrate Philippoussis you can't have him serving 29 aces on you," Rusedski said. "I don't remember him ever playing three sets and serving only five aces. That is the most satisfying statistic of the day."  Henman, the world No8 who went from seventh seed to sixth when Juan Carlos Ferrero dropped out, is now the highest seed left after the defeat of Russia's Yevgeny Kafelnikov and France's Sébastien Grosjean yesterday and he remains capable of raising his game.  The rivalry between the two Britons was apt to be caustic early on but has matured into mutual if wary respect. Henman has beaten Rusedski in their past three meetings, including the quarter-finals of this year's Adelaide tournament, which Henman went on to win - his ninth title. The next week, though, Rusedski won in Auckland, his 11th title, as if to say "I'm not finished yet".  Henman has reached three grand slam semi-finals, all at Wimbledon, but against that Rusedski got to the final of the 1997 US Open which he lost to Australia's Pat Rafter.  These have been a remarkable opening three days in the men's tournament. First Andre Agassi, the reigning champion and No3 seed, pulled out and since then the other top four seeds - Australia's Lleyton Hewitt, Gustavo Kuerten of Brazil, Kafelnikov and Grosjean - have lost.  Suddenly the cupboard is bare; or at least those at the back are emerging into the light looking a touch dazed, save for Pete Sampras who must by yesterday have been sensing a 14th grand slam title virtually by default.  The young guns are also getting itchy fingers, looking to walk tall from this early rubble, but the opportunity is as good for Henman or Rusedski as for anybody. An Australian Channel 7 interviewer put it to Henman: "Hopefully, if you continue playing like this, Tim, you might be pushing a certain pot-smoking prince off the front pages back home." Oxford's finest, more used to the BBC's brand of the bland, almost fell off his chair before saving himself with a time-delaying: "Er, well, yes . . ."  Having lost all their own players, the Australians will seek a vicarious thrill from the Battle of the Britons, which seems likely to be staged under floodlights in the Rod Laver Arena at around 9.30am British time tomorrow.  "There will be a lot of pride at stake," said Rusedski. "He wants to beat me and I want to beat him." Henman added a twist. "It all boils down to who plays best on the day and I think that will be me."  Those who have merely looked at Henman's first- and second-round scores might conclude that he is in prime form, having dropped only 17 games in six sets, but he has frequently appeared ill at ease and strained. Perhaps it was no more than nerves in the first round and then the growing realisation that his half of the draw was opening up.  It is worth repeating: a British player is the highest seed remaining on the first Thursday of a grand slam event. Take a good look at the moon tonight. It may be blue.  As everybody knows, pressure is not Henman's handmaiden. So will he crack, like a Tour de France sprinter entering the Alps? Rusedski aims to chip away at the fabric from the first ball.  "It's been such a struggle mentally and physically for me over the last two years," he said. "Tim really hasn't had those sort of difficulties and challenges. I think I've come out the better for them. In Adelaide I played Tim, not the ball. This time I want to play my game and, if he comes up with the shots, then he deserves to win. But I fancy my chances."  · BBC1 will televise the Henman v Rusedski match live tomorrow, starting at 9.30am. 