  Brad Gilbert, the former coach of Andre Agassi, has one of the most tactically astute minds in the game and, having seen his current charge Andy Roddick struggle against Tim Henman in the past, he hatched a plan to take the initiative in their Masters Cup match. In a typical game by ARod, the young American outvolleyed the serve and volleyer, thus sowing crucial seeds of doubt, to beat Henman 7-5, 7-6.  Henman might have won the first set - he had two break points on the Roddick serve, his only two of the match, at 5-5 - and he held a 5-2 lead in the second-set tie-break. But Roddick, as befits the world No2, garnered the big points whereas the Briton did not, something that singles out the leading players, the slam champions, from those who are simply very good.  All is not lost. This is a round-robin tournament and Henman plays Guillermo Coria of Argentina today and will expect to win against a player who, until this week, has been out of action since August with shoulder problems that needed surgery. Russia's Marat Safin, the other member of the blue group, took only an hour to defeat Coria; he looks a soft touch.  Of course, such an inference is enough to put the jitters up any Henman supporters. If he maintains the standards of his match against Roddick - he believed this was his best tennis since reaching the US Open semi-finals, where he lost to Roger Federer - he should be able to restrict any turbulence to a minimum. However, seat belts may be best left fastened.  Coria, who defeated Henman in the semi-final of the French Open before spectacularly disintegrating through nerves in the final against his compatriot Gastón Gaudio, was understandably circumspect against Safin, although he felt his rhythm was returning by the end.  Henman will need to make doubly sure that he does not allow himself to get rooted to the baseline. An unbending attack on the Coria serve and a resolute advance to the net must be his absolute priority.  "There is no grace period in this tournament, you're thrown into the fire right away," said Roddick, who summed up his win over Henman as "huge".  Henman's disappointment was ameliorated by the knowledge that the round-robin format still allows him the chance to reach Saturday's semi-finals by beating Coria today, preferably in straight sets, and Safin tomorrow. It is not impossible; simply very tough, for despite his excellent year Henman has had only a couple of wins against top-10 players - Federer and Roddick - in the course of his 43 tournament and Davis Cup victories.  Annoyingly persistent drizzle delayed and then interrupted the Roddick match, emphasising the folly of playing this end-of-season tournament outdoors.  Henman set about attacking the Roddick backhand, which at times can still appear outrageously poor but has, none the less, improved immeasurably under Gilbert's tutelage. Perhaps the British No1 overdid it, thereby robbing himself of the element of surprise, because the quartet of shots that enabled Roddick to save the break points against him and then secure the first set were all backhands. "I just pulled something out of the hat," said the American. And in Texas, hats come pretty big.  A mishit service return that dropped on the line provided Henman with a fortuitous advantage in the tie-break. He had won four of six previous tie-breaks against Roddick but again it was the backhand which undid him and he lost this one 8-6. Both Roddick's serve and his forehand were below par throughout but Gilbert's tactics were spot on, tipping the fine balance the American's way. 