 There is far too much respect on both sides for Andy Murray and Roger Federer to ever get involved in a genuine spat, and Federer's mild remarks in Melbourne that he was surprised the bookmakers had made the Scot the pre-Australian Open favourite, considering he had never won a slam, slid off Murray's back like water off a platypus. "The older you get, the more matches you play, you realise what the bookies are saying doesn't make any difference once you get on court, whether they are saying good things or bad things. You just get on with your job," said Murray, who practised in the heat of the day in the Rod Laver arena, prior to the tournament beginning next Monday, with the all-important draw on Friday. Having won his last three matches against Federer, plus an exhibition victory, Murray is relishing an eighth meeting, having established a 5-2 lead over the Swiss since losing in straight sets in last year's US Open final, their most important meeting to date. "The more you play against him the less fearful you are, you're not scared to win the match. If you're young and you play against the top guys, once you get close to winning you get nervous. Now when I play him I don't get nervous and if I play my best tennis I can beat him," said Murray. Neither is he unduly concerned about the weight of expectation in Britain, and the possibility of him becoming the first men's slam champion since Fred Perry won the US Open in 1936. "I'd love to win a grand slam, but it might not happen. You have to try to forget about all the history. It is not of benefit if you are going on the court worrying about those sort of things. You have to put them to the back of your mind. I do understand what a big deal it would be if someone from Britain did win a slam, but I'm still very young so I'm not putting any added pressure on myself to win this Australian Open. I'm going to enjoy being one of the favourites and give it my best. I've got a lot more grand slams to play. I'm really chilled out." Both Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski failed to cope with the conditions in Melbourne, and neither went beyond the last 16. So far, in three attempts, Murray has made the fourth round once (2007) and been beaten in the first round twice, including last year when he lost to the eventual finalist, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France. However this time he will be seeded No4. "I've never minded heat too much but this temperature is a problem for everyone. Your feet burn on court and it's tough to catch your breath. I practised at 1pm today and it was pretty grisly. Four hours in that heat is unbelievably tough. But that's why you have to put in the work in December. My game's coming together nicely. "Very few people reach their peak in whatever they are doing at 21. That could still be two years away, but physically I'm in the best shape I could be. And if I play like I have been I've got a chance." Federer, who is aiming for a record-equalling 14th grand-slam title in this year's Australian Open, earlier admitted he was shocked to learn that Murray had been installed as joint-favourite alongside him and ahead of the Spanish world No1 Nadal and the defending champion, Novak Djokovic. "He's playing well and finished strongly last year. But I'm surprised that the bookies say that," Federer said. "He's never won a slam ... it's surprising to hear. "Andy's shown for a year that's he's knocking on the door. He's a good all-round player, has good tactics and he's full of confidence. But winning a slam is a different animal. Not many guys have been able to win them over the last few years. Rafa and I have taken a lot of them. It doesn't happen that easily but he has a chance like many other players." Federer, who missed last year's Australian Open warm-up tournament at Kooyong due to illness, said he was feeling fit and refreshed before the year's first grand slam. "I'm really happy coming down under and I love playing here," he said. "I'm coming off the US Open last year so I hope I can continue that here in Australia. "But it's a new year and you never know what's going to happen. Many guys want to do the same thing I want to do." Federer begins his AAMI Classic campaign against long-time rival Carlos Moya on Wednesday morning. 