 Greg Rusedski received a message of solidarity yesterday from one of the few people who understands completely what he is going through.  Like Rusedski, Bohdan Ulihrach tested positive for nandrolone but, unlike Rusedski, Ulihrach is one of seven players now in the clear after an independent inquiry ruled that they could have taken contaminated electrolyte supplements handed out by the ATP's trainers.  On hearing the results of the investigation in May 2003, the ATP immediately stopped its staff handing out the supplements. Rusedski tested positive for nandrolone two months later.  "I believe Greg 100%. He has my full support," said Ulihrach yesterday."Greg was No4 in the world so he doesn't need to take anything like that.  "I believe he's innocent. I went up to him in the locker room this morning and I told him: 'Greg, I'm sorry. If you need anything, here is my telephone number. You can call me any time. I'm sure it's some mistake.' Maybe his lawyer can talk to my lawyer."  After initially being handed a two-year ban, the Czech eventually won his battle to clear his name last July - but since his was one of the first positive tests to come up, he was the only player, until Rusedski, whose name became public. The identity of the other six remains a secret, but at least two headliners are rumoured to be among them.  Ulihrach, who says he does not know the names of the others, is playing at the Australian Open next week and is taking another step towards rebuilding a career which came close to being destroyed.  "They were tough times when they suspended me because I looked like a cheater," he said. "The world fell down for me. When they decided I couldn't play for two years, it was a terrible feeling. It's very hard when you know you are innocent.  "After the man said my sample was positive, I couldn't sleep. I just wanted to play tennis again. I didn't know what nandrolone was. Now I'm smarter and I know almost everything about nandrolone, but I still don't know where the nandrolone in my system came from."  Rusedski says the same and if his lawyers can prove at his hearing on February 9 that there is a link between his sample and those given by Ulihrach and the other six players then, like them, he may also escape punishment.  His defence hinges on the fact that the eight samples which tested positive for nandrolone since August 2002, plus a further 39 which showed elevated levels of the drug, all share a virtually identical analytical "fingerprint" with similar levels of nandrolone.  According to both Ulihrach and Rusedski, that could suggest that all the nandrolone came from the same contaminated source.  "I think the players know there is still a problem," said Ulihrach. "There could be 40 or 50 more positive guys with the same fingerprint and the same level, at this tournament.  "I really don't have an idea what is the source. Maybe there is maybe something wrong in the testing. I will be very interested to see what happens with Greg."  He will not be the only one, although Ulihrach knows that even if Rusedski persuades the hearing of his innocence, he may find himself scarred by the experience.  "I know that some people will never believe me, but what can I do?" said Ulihrach. "I'm still scared, always, whenever I'm going to be tested. When somebody rings me and my mobile shows 'No number' I'm always thinking: 'Is this somebody from the doping agency saying my test was positive?' It never goes away." 