 Andy and Jamie Murray, Johanna Konta and Heather Watson were confirmed as Rio Olympians on Friday and the elder Murray brother, who will be restored to No1 in world doubles on Monday, had something else to celebrate: an MBE. Jamie revealed he had kept the secret from his brother and everyone else except his wife for about two months, although he texted his parents on Friday after the official list had been released under embargo to the media. Rumours that Andy, who has an OBE, might be in line for a knighthood lingered earlier in the week but came to nothing, and Jamie joked: “The race is on although I think he is a lot further down the line. “I was really surprised when I got the letter through the mail. I had been away a lot during March and April. When I got home after quite a long trip I was going through mail and it said on the envelope ‘On Her Majesty’s Service’, or whatever. For some reason I just knew that’s what it was going to be. Instinct, really. “It was cool. It’s amazing to be honoured like that. I feel really, really privileged and excited. I told my wife first. She wasn’t there at the time. I didn’t tell anyone else until today. I found out maybe a couple of months ago, maybe not quite as long as that. Andy didn’t know. Mum knows now because I texted her to tell her, and my dad.” Maria Sharapova’s fight to clear her name as a drugs cheat hovered over the announcement of the first tranche of players for the Great Britain team to compete in Rio in August. Watson said: “I think she’s made a mistake. When you get drug-tested you’re supposed to write down on the forms all the medication you take, which she didn’t. So now she has to pay a price for it. It’s like a soap opera. It’s so interesting to see that this has happened in our sport. I’m following everything.” Konta was more reserved. “Quite honestly, I don’t think it’s my place to have any opinion on that,” she said. “It’s very much a battle that Sharapova’s facing herself. She has said she is taking full responsibility, but the integrity of our sport is of the utmost importance.” The younger Murray, still resting from the rigours of the French Open where he lost in the singles final to Novak Djokovic last Sunday, did not attend but will team up with his brother in the doubles again after their heroics in the Davis Cup last year. Andy is the defending singles champion and also won silver in the mixed doubles in 2012. “I probably didn’t quite do myself justice in previous Games,” said Jamie who, partnered by his brother, lost in the first round at London 2012. “But I’m coming to the peak of my career and I’m really excited to be going. “The draw is going to be extremely strong. All the singles and doubles players will be playing. We have a chance to do well, of course. We’re both playing the best tennis of our careers. It’s a unique event for us. “There is that extra pressure to do well because, if you stuff it up, you’ve got to wait another four years. London, for me, was a real anti-climax. I didn’t perform well at all. I want to make amends for that.” Watson, perhaps the most enthusiastic of all the Olympian hopefuls, will partner Konta in doubles. She said: “I’m extremely excited. It’s been a big goal of mine this year to be involved in the Olympics. I knew when I played in London I wanted to be part of the next Games.” However, because her ranking is not high enough, Watson is likely to miss out on a mixed doubles place to Konta, No18 in the world, alongside Jamie Murray. Watson was hugely disappointed when Laura Robson got the spot ahead of her with Andy at London 2012. Iain Bates, the Great Britain tennis team leader, said there were several other in the frame, including Kyle Edmund, Dominic Inglot and Colin Fleming. “The signing-off is 9 August. We will confirm our team on 8 August. There’s a lot that can happen between now and then, as to how that team comes together.” He also confirmed Andy Murray would be staying outside the Olympic village with his own support team “to create the environment that he’s used to in the regular weeks of the Tour. So he’ll be set up with his own physio. The rest of the gang will be in the village.” 