 Andy Murray's former coach Mark Petchey believes the British No1's coolly taken, career-best win over Roger Federer in the Dubai Open on Monday showed just how he can reach the top. Petchey disagreed with Federer's post-match comment that the Scot's game was too defensive and his style had not developed since they first played in 2005. "It was a phenomenal match for Murray," Petchey said. "Serving-wise that was an amazing thing. For Andy not to have a break against him in the entire match is a bit special. And that is going to be a way he can go places. Obviously he will have better days than others. But I always thought the sky's the limit for him and, if he keeps it as consistent as that, he will be very hard to handle because he's always going to break serve with his returns." Federer's criticism sounded similar to that attributed to Petchey when he split with Murray. According to the world No1, the Briton, who meets Fernando Verdasco, the world No30 from Spain, in the second round today, spends so much time behind the baseline waiting for mistakes and does so much running that he will have to do "a lot of grinding". But Petchey has never been drawn on the nature of his coaching break-up and avoided it on this occasion. "If that's Federer's opinion, he's better placed to comment," he replied. "I did see that comment and I saw Andy's reply: how he plays different ways against different players. He's played Federer three times and won twice and he's entitled to his opinion." Asked if this dialogue had been similar to their own disagreement, Petchey said: "I would rather stay away from that. It was what it was. I am never going to comment on it and I'm not going to start now. It isn't a secret what I felt. We had our discussions about it. I said if he gets 55 or 60% of his first serves in - hitting, not just getting it in - he will be hard to stop. The key is the percentage. That's how it was last night and it was great to watch." Most remarkably of all, Petchey suggested that Murray's peak was almost upon him. "If you look at my quotes when I was working with him I said that the age of 21 was when he will play his best tennis - and he's a few months from his 21st birthday now." Was that a coded way of hinting that relying heavily on great court coverage would cause him to burn out early? Quite possibly. What is certain is that, their separation notwithstanding, Petchey remains a Murray supporter. "I'm sure everyone has opinions about my relationship with him and how I feel [about him]," Petchey said. "But I have been his biggest supporter. And I still am." Rafael Nadal said the performance showed that Murray can be "one, three, two, four, five in the world". As an up-and-down career it sounded acceptable. But the strongest view was that of Novak Djokovic. "Considering the results this year I expected Murray to win," the Australian Open champion said. "You have to give him a lot of credit because he's a great player and this year he has high goals." And so was Murray's game suited to playing Federer? "Yes. Roger doesn't like it when you get a lot of balls back. Murray has a great style and talent and knows how to play in any one moment." Martina Hingis is to return to competition in the Liverpool International Tournament in June despite her drugs ban. The Swiss announced her retirement from the game in November after she tested positive for cocaine at Wimbledon last summer. Although the 27-year-old denied and challenged the findings, the International Tennis Federation rejected her appeal and she was handed a two-year suspension from October 1 2007. However, the five-time grand slam winner can appear at the tournament at Calderstones Park from June 10-15 because it is an invitational event and not part of the Women's Tennis Association tour. 