 What goes around comes around. Two days after Andy Murray's second-round match with Sébastien Grosjean at the Artois Championships was brought to an abrupt halt when the injured Frenchman was forced to retire after two games, the Scot has himself withdrawn from the tournament after failing to recover from a thumb injury sustained during his third-round win over Latvian teenager Ernests Gulbis. Murray, who had been scheduled to face defending champion Andy Roddick in the second of today's quarter-finals, has chosen to forgo what would have been a first appearance in the last eight at Queen's Club in order to ensure his fitness for Wimbledon in ten days' time. "When I came off the court and cooled down, I started to feel my thumb badly," said Murray, "and when I woke up this morning I couldn't pick anything up properly. It was painful and I couldn't hit my shots properly, so it's a sensible decision to make." The injury is a further blow for Murray, who is short of match practice after losing in the third round of the French Open and playing just one full match at Queen's. However, the world No11 is confident that he will be ready in time for Wimbledon. "The thumb is pretty badly bruised but hopefully I'll return early next week; I don't think it's going to be a problem," added Murray. "I can still hit a few shots, but slices and backhand volleys are the worst. If you can't hold a tennis racket properly, there's no point in going on court."  Murray, who memorably overcame Roddick in the third round at Wimbledon two summers ago, was disappointed to miss out on the opportunity to test himself against the four-times Queen's champion. "It is unfortunate because I have had some great matches with Andy in the past," said Murray, who has won four of the six matches he has contested against the American. Murray and medical misfortune have rarely been far apart at Queen's, where the Scot was stricken with cramp against Tomas Johansson in 2005. Last year, meanwhile, he was forced to miss the tournament altogether after picking up a wrist injury at the Hamburg Masters. Rafael Nadal's tournament almost came to a similarly premature conclusion after the top seed was pushed all the way en route to a 7-6, 6-7, 7-6 victory over Ivo Karlovic. The big-serving Croatian, who at 6ft 10in is the tallest player on the men's tour, sent down 35 aces before Nadal secured a mini-break to go 5-3 ahead in the final-set tiebreak. It proved enough for Nadal, who served out the breaker to reach his first semi-final at Queen's, where he will face Roddick. Novak Djokovic, the second seed, made speedier progress to his appointed semi-final berth with a 6-2, 6-2 win over former Wimbledon champion Lleyton Hewitt. "It felt good," said Djokovic after handing Hewitt the heaviest defeat he has suffered at Queen's. "I didn't play so well and wasn't happy with my first two matches. But making the transition from clay to grass takes time. My preparations are great; hopefully I can continue the run at Wimbledon." 