 Nottinghamshire need no reminding that a newly-promoted county can immediately win the first division of the county championship. They achieved such a feat only three years ago and now, holding an 18-point lead after the first four matches, they are threatening against all expectations to repeat the trick. Sussex, the defending champions, are due at Trent Bridge tomorrow and will prove a good test of their mettle. For Chris Read, the Nottinghamshire captaincy has come at a good time. Spurned by England, even though by common consent he remains the silkiest wicketkeeper in the country, a fresh challenge will stop his mind festering over what might have been.  He recognises that, for a wicketkeeper, the captaincy is a potential path to self-destruction. Many have failed to combine both jobs, their 'keeping standards declining as they fret about a bowling change while the ball is flying between them and first slip at catchable height.  "My biggest concern when I got the captaincy was how my keeping would fare,'' Read admitted. "I am a wicketkeeper first and foremost. Captaincy can be all-consuming, but I have done a bit in Twenty20 and I have learned to mentally say to myself that when the bowler runs up, it is all about the ball and the decisions can wait.  "I find myself going home far more tired than I used to and I am sleeping very well at night. I'm sure there are some difficult times ahead.'' Stephen Fleming, whose astute captaincy did much to marshal the 2005 success, was favoured by a remarkably consistent bowling attack. Mark Ealham, Ryan Sidebottom, AJ Harris, Greg Smith and Graeme Swann all bowled more than 300 overs and took between 30 and 56 wickets. No one else really got a look in.  "That year we just bowled the same bowlers, week in, week out,'' Read said. "It will be different this year. Ryan will be away with England for most of the time and when we signed Stuart Broad we knew it was a gamble. When we saw him playing for England on the TV in the winter, it became obvious that he wouldn't be around at Nottinghamshire too much.''  Frustratingly for Read, Notts' only defeat – a close encounter against Kent at Trent Bridge – came with both Sidebottom and Broad in the team. Their star of the season has been a bit of a turn-up: Darren Pattinson, a late-developing Australian with English-born parents whose two championship outings have brought 15 championship wickets and leave him fourth in the PCA rankings as the championship's Most Valuable Player.  "It's been a fortunate signing,'' Read said. "We seem to be able to throw the ball to him and let him get on with it. He has a nice strong action, but he has reached his late 20s without playing day-in, day-out cricket, so it is a case of managing him well and not overloading him.''  Pattinson, a roof tiler by trade, had been a regular for Dandenong in Melbourne grade cricket without too much ado, before Victoria called him up as an emergency in 2006. He won his first State contract last winter, only to remain largely inactive as Victoria's injured fast bowlers returned. Notts snapped him up on a two-year contract, and have since been reminding him that his birthplace in Grimsby, in the neighbouring county of Lincolnshire, almost qualifies him as a local.  Notts do not immediately have the look of champions. Their top five has been restructured and Adam Voges, apart from an enterprising half-century to see off Lancashire last week, has yet to suggest the same reliability as the fellow Australian that he will understudy for much of the season, David Hussey.  Just yesterday a collapse against Warwickshire in the Friends Provident illustrated their vulnerability, as they lost nine wickets in 18 overs to be dismissed in less than 30 overs. It was condemned by Read as "unacceptable'' and he knows that a flimsy batting line-up is even harder to disguise in the championship. There are only so many middle-order recovery missions that Read and Swann can undertake.  "Sussex have won championship by being around the top in August and then finishing strongly,'' he said. "I know what it takes to win a championship so I'm very wary of making big statements, but if we are still in the hunt with a month to go that will be great.'' 