 Madrid, St Petersburg, Paris. The cities speed by like stops on the underground as the men's season rushes towards its conclusion at the Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai, beginning a week on Sunday. Some players can hardly set one foot in front of another as winter beckons. For others, like Britain's Andy Murray, opponents continue to fall like autumn leaves and the air is charged with excitement. The Scot is on a quite extraordinary run of success, winning the last two Masters Series events, in Cincinnati and Madrid, and last week's tournament in Russia. He also reached his first grand slam final, at Flushing Meadows in September. He has no intention of allowing himself a little slack this week. Nobody has ever won three successive Masters titles - not Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Andre Agassi or Pete Sampras. Murray's eyes sparkle at the thought of a unique treble. "The last few months have been good," he said here yesterday, with characteristic understatement. "It's not that often that you get the chance to be on a streak like this so I'll try and keep it going." At this time of year mental fatigue creeps up on the players like the first frosts of winter. Murray has no such problems. Adrenaline is surging through a body wired by success. "I think a lot of the guys feel mentally tired but I don't because of the breaks I've had this season. I don't feel tired at all."  Yesterday Nadal, who knocked Federer off the top of the world rankings this year, called Murray a "complete" player, and the Spaniard believes the 21-year-old from Dunblane is here to stay. Asked which player had impressed him most in 2008, Nadal shot back: "Murray". "He has just proved in these last few months that he can win the big tournaments, whoever is in his way," Nadal said. "He is a massive talent, with a complete game and both an aggressive shot and a containing shot. He makes it all look so easy." Today, Murray faces Sam Querrey. He has beaten the Californian in their two previous meetings, including this year at Cincinnati on the way to his first Masters Series win. He has not yet received that trophy. "The one from Madrid is next to my television," he said.  Last year Murray made a late charge towards qualification for the Tennis Masters Cup, before losing here to France's Richard Gasquet. This year Murray sealed his place in Shanghai when he was runner-up to Federer in the US Open. "Last year was tough. There was obviously a lot of pressure on me to qualify for Shanghai although it would have been an unbelievable effort after missing three or four months because of the wrist," he said. "And I wanted to change some things off the court. I had seven or eight weeks last year to get myself in better shape, get the right people around me, decide where I wanted to train - so there was a lot of stuff going through my mind. This year it's not very complicated. I know what I'm going to do in November-December time and I know who is going to be with me. It's just much, much easier to go on court because I don't have a lot else to think of. "I haven't really thought that much about Shanghai, or anything else. I just think about the next match each time. I'm sure at the end of the year I'll look back on the last few months and really enjoy it and then use it as motivation for next year, though I'm sure once I get to China it will be great and I'll really enjoy it. It will be such a good test to see exactly where my game is at, playing against the top guys three or four days in a row. And seeing what I need to improve on for next year." Some might suppose that Murray, now No4 in the world, does not need to improve an awful lot, but as a keen fan of formula one he recognises the similarities between himself and Lewis Hamilton. "He's at the top of the sport and probably will be for the next 10 years," Murray said. "Hopefully I can do the same thing."  The likelihood is growing all the time. Rafael Nadal says Andy Murray can win the big tournaments, 'whoever is in his way'. This is how the Scot has fared against the world's top three v Rafael Nadal World No1 Won 1 Lost 5  Lost in three Masters events and two grand slams before beating the world No1 in this year's US Open semi-finals v Roger Federer No2 Won 3 Lost 2 Beat the Swiss twice in Masters play, though this year's US Open final defeat in straight sets was disappointing  v Novak Djokovic No3 Won 2 Lost 4 Won last two matches, both in Masters tournaments this season 