 The fourth seed David Nalb치ndian was sent packing from the US Open at the second-round stage yesterday, beaten 6-3, 7-5, 2-6, 3-6, 7-6 by the former champion Marat Safin in a marathon battle. The Argentinian saved two match points but Safin clinched victory when Nalbandian netted a drop shot after three hours 52 minutes. "It feels pretty good, especially beating good players like Nalb치ndian," said Safin. "Hopefully I will play much better next match and I can continue heading closer to the final." The Russian dominated the first two sets but, as he did against the German Michael Berrer in the first round, Nalb치ndian fought back to level at two sets apiece. Nalb치ndian saved one match point to force a tiebreak and then came from 5-1 down to level at 5-5, but after saving a second match point at 5-6, he could not save a third. "I just had the match in control after two sets and I let him come back," Safin said. "I got a little bit scared because I was playing too well, then I started to think a little bit too much, I stop to attack, I change a little bit my game, then he started to play his tennis." Safin, the winner in 2000, will play Olivier Rochus of Belgium in the third round on Monday. The Russian recently took a time-out with his coach, Peter Lundgren, and has been helped by the former Russian player Alexander Volkov. "It's very important, right now in my position, to have somebody to push me and give me a little bit of confidence and try to understand me, what's going on in my head," Safin added. "You need somebody to be there for you basically. Alex, he knows me pretty well from long time ago, so he kind of just (senses) my situation. "We can speak the same language and he understands what's going on. So it makes me really happy." The fifth seed Nadia Petrova became the highest seeded casualty in the women's singles when she was beaten 7-5 6-7 6-3 by France's Tatiana Golovin in the third round yesterday. Petrova, who has reached the quarter-finals for the past two years, was leading by a break in the opening set but Golovin broke back and then broke again in the 11th game before serving out for the set. The Russian hit back in the tie-break but Golovin then broke early in the third set and held her nerve to serve out for the win after two hours 46 minutes. Golovin will next meet another Russian, Anna Chakvetadze. 