 Andy Murray's breakthrough win at the US Open has inspired the next wave of young players to copy his body-breaking training regime in an attempt to breathe life into British tennis. Leon Smith, the head of men's tennis at the LTA, has seen a few prospects fail to match Murray's commitment over the years, but he has detected a significant shift in attitude. "Andy is one of the best players in the world and we have great access to him," Smith said. "Jamie Baker and Ollie Golding, for instance, are both doing the training camp with him [in Miami]. That for them is amazing. Jamie comes back, spreads the word: 'Oh my god, Andy gets up at 6am, he's on South Beach running thousands of miles until he throws up in the end, he's doing Bikram yoga, he's doing weights, he's playing all hours of the day.' "The coach of Ollie Golding is out there as well, so he brings that knowledge back too. It's an ongoing up-skilling of our coaches, our players, our culture, because Andy has shown just how much hard work is needed to get there. I am really grateful to Andy for offering such an opportunity to those players, because it trickles much further down than to just those two." And, if Murray needs to sidestep the Davis Cup to chase more glory on the Tour, he will do so with the blessing of the captain, Smith, whom he has known since they worked together in Murray's earliest playing days. "I'm sure if we had a [British] No2 player closer to the top, then of course that's going to appeal more to Andy to play, because then you really feel you have a chance of not just doing well in the competition, but actually challenging to win it." He said he had a "really good conversation" with Murray about playing Davis Cup next year. "I left there positive about it, to fit with his schedule in a more appealing way. I will see him during pre-season when he's out in Miami. But it's such fine lines between becoming a slam champion and No1 in the world, which obviously is a goal – and I'd still rather him do that. I'd still rather have him winning slams. Yes it would be great to do both, but what he did at the US Open is clearly a massive boost for all the sport. "I have brought some juniors along [in Davis Cup], not just to showcase them, but make them understand how important it is. But it is up to the players to step up, and the rankings don't lie. The gap between Andy and British No 2 [James Ward, ranked 255] is not good enough, by any stretch of the imagination. Yes we'll support them, some more than others, but, unless they are absolutely desperate for success, it doesn't matter how much help you give them. It's down to them." Smith has "nothing but encouraging feelings" about the younger players. "They're prepared to travel weeks and weeks on end, it doesn't faze them. And they're enjoying it, enjoying being in the gym, fighting on the court. They've got the right attitude, they're worth the investment – unfortunately there are only four or five of them. I wish we had 10 or 15. "But there's not a teenager in the top 200 on the Tour at the moment, so, realistically, Kyle Edmunds, at 17, has a way to go, but he is absolutely good enough to get there – if he keeps showing the right attitude. It's not one or two years, though. Realistically, it's three or four years down the line. "There is a lot of talk about physicality in tennis. It is the most demanding game now, with the length of the rallies. The stress on the body is clearly taking more of a toll. That said, week in, week out, we are still seeing outstanding tennis, probably the best that we've seen. That's the way the sport's gone and we have to make our move on with the next generation of players, so they can have a long career, know what they're doing, have fewer injuries." Smith also paid tribute to Jonny Marray, whose rise to prominence since winning Wimbledon in the doubles this year has continued at the ATP World Tour Finals in London this week. Marray and his Danish partner Frederik Nielsen became the first pair to qualify for the semi-finals with their second win in the round robin series here, and the 31-year-old Yorkshireman can look forward to more success, according to Smith. "I'm thrilled for him, a genuinely nice guy who has been around for awhile," he said. "And what an opportunity going into next year as well. I really hope he finds a partner [Nielsen will concentrate on singles in 2013] to help him maintain that level." Marray is the surprise feelgood story of the Great Sporting Summer, a veteran whose dedication paid off when it mattered. "It's one thing to break through, another thing staying there," Smith said, "but he will now be able to play all the Masters series because of his world ranking, which is an amazing opportunity for him. "The benefit of having a doubles strategy [at the LTA] has been obvious. This is the future. We have a number of players now playing in Masters series, slam tennis, rubbing shoulders with the best players and coaches in the world for a longer time, so when they come out of their journey – and they can go on to their 40s now in doubles – we will have some very highly skilled players." Marray is now going where Murray, Laura Robson and Heather Watson have been or are about arrive. The likes of Golding, Edmund, Luke Bambridge, Liam Broady, Peter Ashley and Joshua Ward-Hibbert are making encouraging noises and will soon be testing themselves in more unforgiving company. Whether they have what it takes to fulfil Smith's hopes of Great Britain winning the Davis Cup for the first time since 1936 is another dream altogether. He can point, though, to Murray's ghost-slaying achievement at Flushing Meadows, when the Scot put Fred Perry's name just a little further into the distance. 