 It was not as great a surprise as it sounds that Tim Henman won for the first time in four attempts against Jan-Michael Gambill, the American pin-up they nickname Hollywood, to reach the semi-finals in the seventh Master Series event of the year in Cincinnati.  Henman's new coaching partnership with Larry Stefanki has been regenerating his enthusiasm after it took him a long time to get over the disappointment of so narrowly missing the Wimbledon final.  In any case, all week the tournament has been suggesting that the established order of things is being turned over. Record temperatures well over 100 degrees gave Goran Ivanisevic heat exhaustion and contributed to his eventual collapse two days later while Pete Sampras and André Agassi showed signs of mental fragility in the sweaty conditions, which were little short of astonishing during their early defeats.  Sampras looked a shadow of his formidable self in a loss to Alberto Martin of Spain: fretting constantly about the problems of gripping the racket, while Agassi was so edgy that he eventually tipped himself over the edge, disintegrating in a fever of obsessive complaining and obscene language against Gaston Gaudio of Argentina.  Even Greg Rusedski seemed to be affected by the volatile atmosphere, launching into a tirade against 'chair umpires taking too much control on big points' after Norm Chryst got an overrule wrong at 15-30 in the fourth game of the final set of his match against Patrick Rafter, who plays in tonight's final.  But Henman's eagerness to do well has been admirable. He at last found a way to break down the deceptive double-handed hitting of Gambill, winning 4-6 6-2 6-2 in a match of constant breaks of serve and curious incidents.  The opening game had eight deuces and five break points that Henman was unable to take, and at one stage Gambill seemed so confident of repeating the wins he has had against the Briton that he was staring at fireworks in the sky from a nearby theme park instead of focusing on the business of serving.  Henman, by contrast, managed one of the great retrieves of all time in the first set, risking an appalling collision with the backstop to run down a lurching, top-spin lob and return it by steepling the ball 80 feet into the sky. He won the point with it too, only to lose the set with a sudden and unexpected double fault.  Thereafter he made consistent progress in a match of inconsistencies, although Henman attributed that to the heavier late-night conditions that, he reckoned, 'made the ball change speed like a cooled-down squash ball', and to the fact that he was trying to slow down the pace to induce mistakes from his hard-hitting opponent.  But it was not until after two hours and 23 minutes of effort that Henman had his way. 'It didn't really matter how long it was going to take. I was prepared to stay out there because I had never beaten him before,' said Henman who thus earned himself a semi-final with the world number one Gustavo Kuerten for the second successive year.  Henman has won both their previous meetings, including the semi-final here last year when he beat Kuerten 6-7 6-3 7-6 to reach the final, where he lost to Thomas Enqvist. The British player would dearly love a repeat performance over Kuerten. 'I'm looking forward to that,' he said. 'But he's playing awfully well.' Well enough indeed for Kuerten to return to the top of the ATP Champions Race by making a wonderful recovery against the former world number one Yevgeny Kafelnikov.  The delightful Brazilian won the first 15 points on his service games and then ran into such trouble that he needed to save three points to avoid going a double break of serve down in the final set in a 6-3 3-6 6-4 win. An Australian finalist became certain when Lleyton Hewitt won the longest match of the tournament, in two hours and 52 minutes against Croatian qualifier Ivan Ljubicic to come through for a semi-final with Rafter.  Rafter won it, 6-4 6-3 and is in good form. Two years ago he won here before taking the US Open title. A repeat is a live possibility. 