 The Wimbledon boycott is definitely on. Cliff Drysdale, the president of the Association of Tennis Players, which includes the present Wimbledon champion, Stan Smith, and most of the leading men players, announced early today that he was instructing his men members to withdraw from the tournament in support of Niki Pilić. This follows the ruling of Mr Justice Forbes in the High Court, who dismissed an application by Pilić for injunctions against the International Lawn Tennis Federation, which had suspended him from playing in England after he had refused to play for Yugoslavia against New Zealand a month ago. Pilić's suspension was to have lasted until June 30, and at a meeting in Rome the APT members said they would refuse to play in any tournament from which he was banned. Drysdale said that he would inform Captain Mike Gibson, umpire of the tournament, about the decision later this morning. He expected that 90 would support the boycott. "We have the fullest confidence in our cause," he said. "We deeply regret that this confrontation came in Wimbledon fortnight, but we had little choice." To avoid a confrontation of this kind in future he suggested the formation of a new international tennis council on which the ILTF, the men and women players, the sponsors, and the tournament organisers would all be represented. The All-England Club, which organises Wimbledon, issued a list of 16 seeds for the men's singles earlier yesterday. All but one of these - Jan Kodes - are members of the ATP. "I shall give Captain Gibson a list of our men, and if there are any who want to play they must tell him themselves. "We shall have a meeting tomorrow of all our members, but it will only be an information meeting. The Board has taken the final decision." Besides Kodes, the players who are still expected to compete include the American, Jimmy Connors, Alex Metreveli, of Russia, Owen Davidson, of Australia, Bjorn Borg, of Sweden, and many players from behind the Iron Curtain. Last year Wimbledon managed without most of the big stars because of a dispute with Lamar Hunt and attendances were the second highest in the history of the championship. The boycott decision was made at a three-hour meeting in a London hotel. Eighty-one players boycotted Wimbledon in 1973. In 2003, Guardian columnist Frank Keating looked back on the controversy.  Originally published in the Manchester Guardian on 25 June 1914: The winning of the Hard Court World's Championship by a young girl should change ideas regarding lawn tennis for girls Originally published in the Manchester Guardian on 9 July 1934:  What a Wimbledon! One can hardly believe it – both the singles for Great Britain 