 If the All England Club's system of court allocation was determined by size of fan base, Sania Mirza and Shahar Peer would have automatic rights to Centre and Court One. Women in saris, men in turbans and scores of spectators of South Asian and Israeli origin squeezed into Court Three on Friday evening to catch a glimpse of the most talked about pairing on the women's tour and the supportive noise they drummed up was arguably in breach of Wimbledon etiquette. The 20-year-old women are teaming up again for the first time since October 2005, when they agreed to split because of pressure from religious authorities. Mirza, a devout Muslim from India, was deplored by clerics from the Sunni Ulema Board for entering into a partnership with Peer, a Jew from Israel. The precedents for such a partnership certainly did not bode well: in 2002, Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi was threatened with suspension from Pakistan's tennis federation when he entered the Wimbledon men's doubles with Israel's Amir Hadad. Mirza and Peer's reunion got off to a good start here when they beat Sofia Arvidsson and Lilia Osterloh 7-5, 6-3 and today they face Agnes Szavay and Vladimira Uhlirova in the round of 32 on Court Nine. A lengthy run would do nicely for Peer, who shortly after parting with Mirza was drafted into the Israel Defence Forces to undertake two years of national service, which is compulsory for Jewish women over the age of 18. She was awarded "outstanding athlete" status but, when not competing, the Jerusalem-born Peer still performs her duties as an administrative secretary in the mornings before linking up with her coach, Oded Teig, in the afternoons. "In Israel there is not one person you can say my name to without them knowing who I am," says Peer. "Wherever I go with my friends and my family they know me, so I don't have too much time for myself when I'm home." Peer has risen to No16 in the world and is currently ranked 13th in the qualifying list for the lucrative end-of-season WTA Sony Ericsson Championships in Madrid. But only the top eight players qualify, meaning she is unlikely to make it this year, and from 2008 the tournament moves to Doha. Like other Gulf states, Doha does not recognise Israel and there have been suggestions that Peer would be banned from attending it - despite this successful relationship with her Muslim partner. 