 Three double faults when you are serving for the match can be catastrophic, but for Andy Murray it was merely a passing annoyance as he beat Paul Goldstein to move on to a third-round encounter with the big American Robert Kendrick at the Miami Open. On a cool and windy Florida evening, Goldstein nipped at Murray's heels long enough to make the young Scot sweat for longer than he would have liked before going down 6-2 7-6 (7-4). 'I was pretty out of breath,' said Murray, recalling how the sprightly American had engaged him in long rallies, interspersed with some agile sorties to the net. 'I only hit for about two-and-a-half hours over the last six days and conditions here are completely different from Indian Wells [in California]. But after my fall in the semi-final there, I didn't feel like anything was hurting.' Murray seemed to be moving well and will look back on the encounter as excellent preparation for more challenging matches ahead, although Kendrick should not pose too much of a problem if Murray improves his serving. The 27-year-old served and volleyed well enough at Wimbledon last year to lead Rafael Nadal by two sets to love on the Centre Court, but Murray passed him at will when they met a couple of weeks later on grass in Newport, Rhode Island, and beat him again at the US Open. Murray is happy to see his older brother, Jamie, in the Great Britain Davis Cup squad for next month's tie against Holland. 'Jamie has always enjoyed playing in front of a crowd since we were young,' he said. 'He's got a pretty calm head. He always thinks out there and doesn't get too frustrated. His kind of temperament is built for big events.' Andy Roddick, whose previous engagement had been to co-host the tournament sponsor's party on Miami's South Beach with Venus Williams, got back to business with a vengeance on Friday night. Serving an impressive 72 per cent of first serves, the top-ranked American blitzed Argentine newcomer Martin Vassallo Arguello 6-3 6-2. Roddick's next opponent, Gilles Simon, won in Marseille last month and is emerging as one of the best of the new French generation. ' Decisions are being made behind the scenes about the fate of two traditional European clay-court events, Monte Carlo and Hamburg. Both are under threat of having their ATP Masters Series status removed, and at the players' meeting here clay-court experts are said to have voiced their displeasure. Ivan Ljubicic, a man heavily involved in those proceedings as president of the ATP Players' Council, swept into the third round with a 6-3 6-2 win over Filippo Volandri, while Martina Hingis enjoyed the sunshine on an outside court, beating Iveta Benesova 6-3 6-2. 