 Andy Murray believes his enforced six-week break from the tour could improve his chances of winning his first grand slam title. He continues his comeback from a left wrist injury in the second round of the Valencia Open tomorrow against Leonardo Mayer of Argentina, and says the time off has enabled him to relax at a point of the season when others are running themselves into the ground, something that could play into his hands at the Australian Open in January. The ATP World Tour Finals, to be staged in the O2 arena this month, are the next target and there is no question that Murray wants to do well there. But the world No4 has put aside ranking goals and set his sights on being in peak condition come Melbourne, where he has yet to go beyond the last 16. "Because it's such a long year, I didn't want to spend the last eight weeks in the gym every single day and then get to Miami [in December, where he will spend the off-season] and be tired and not want to do the training," Murray said. "I think I took enough time off, worked on some little bits and pieces and I look forward to Miami and getting ready for Australia. "In some ways [the time off] can be a good thing because you can work on something that you might not necessarily have worked on as much. I had to do things to keep my mind fresh because it was six, seven weeks in London, seeing the physios and doctors and doing the same things every day, so we worked on different things on the practice court, which was nice." In a year that has so far seen him win five titles, the only time Murray really underachieved came at the US Open, where he was beaten in the fourth round by Marin Cilic. At the time, Murray could not explain the timidity of his performance but now he admits that his wrist problem was nagging at his mind throughout. "I was struggling for the whole tournament," he said. "Unless you've played sports it's difficult to explain it. But when you have something there and you keep playing through it and it's always there, it gets frustrating. That might have been something to do with the way that I played – not fully focusing on the actual tactics or what I needed to do to in the match to win." 