 Lindsay Davenport is still making light of the knee injury that kept her out for three months, even though she again received treatment between sets in a 6-3, 6-3 first-round victory over Martina Sucha, a Slovakian ranked outside the top 100, yesterday.  "It's just that I had trouble keeping the tape on; it's 100% really," the former champion said, and one hopes, for the sake of a woman who shares her emotions so pleasingly, that this is so.  It is the second match in a row that Davenport has paused between sets to have the knee re-taped - she also did so while winning a very brief final at Eastbourne on Saturday - and there is a risk, apparently, that unless these small repairs are done, the knee-bone could become displaced. It raises questions as to whether, as Davenport is claiming, the knee is now "100%".  On court, nevertheless, Davenport is doing most things required of her and more in the press conferences. She returned serve so hard she broke Sucha's delivery four times and later elaborated on the predicament of Corina Morariu, with whom she won the Wimbledon doubles two years ago and who is fighting for her life after an adverse reaction to chemotherapy.  "It made me mad with myself for being down about the injury," said Davenport. "When I saw what she was going through I thought 'you are so dumb', and I am trying to remember that it is a pleasure and a privilege to be playing, and to have a happier outlook for the second half of my career."  That was a sentiment often in short supply on an afternoon that was hot, sometimes too hot. It boiled over into fury for Joanette Kruger, whose tirade against the umpire Jeremy Shales reached such temperatures that twice she shook the Englishman by whacking his high chair.  The South African also threw a ball at him after a line decision went against her, calling out: "Show me the chalk on the ball." Kruger refused to shake hands with Shales and, after losing to Marta Marrero, a Spaniard ranked 26 places below her, spat out: "You cost me my match."  Shales may not have done that but his reaction will cost her money. He gave Kruger a code violation warning, which will bring her a fine, possibly of several hundred dollars.  Tathiana Garbin had a different reaction to the rising mercury. As well as making use of a 10-minute break rule for extreme heat - in force on the women's tour for six years but used for the first time at Wimbledon yesterday - she also called for a bathroom break before Alexandra Stevenson served for the second set.  "Maybe she wanted to throw me off a little," said the semi- finalist of two years ago. "I just tried not to let my focus go." Stevenson succeeded, recovering from a slow start to beat the Italian 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. "Girls are pretty strategical," the American said.  Australian fans coped rather better with the stresses of what was once called ladies' day. Some were even prepared to forgive Jelena Dokic for renouncing her adopted country and re-adopting Yugoslav nationality, and cheered her loudly.  Told of this, Dokic revealed surprise before discreetly recovering with "you know, I think I still get a lot of support from the people in Australia". Her father Damir, though less confrontational than before, was once more in trouble after he inadvertently flaunted Wimbledon's no-smoking rule by lighting his pipe courtside. It is thought he will escape a penalty, though.  Banned from Wimbledon for his aggressive antics last year, he sat courtside, often a model of introspection. His 18-year-old daughter eventually repeated a victory she had over Rossana de los Rios in the Sydney Olympics but she was within two points of losing the first set to the Spaniard before winning 7-5, 6-1.  She should have a last-16 meeting with Davenport. Another 18-year-old, Kim Clijsters, who reached the final of the French Open two weeks ago, raised a few eyebrows by claiming she is a better player on grass than clay. It was hard to argue on this occasion as she allowed the Italian Giulia Casoni only two games.  Amélie Mauresmo is trying to learn to love grass but finding it more difficult. She has the game for it but still has to acquire the gut feeling as to when to steal forward and when to contain. There were moments in her 7-6, 4-6, 6-4 victory against the Australian Nicole Pratt when the sixth seed appeared in danger.  But the ultimate word on the subject was Stevenson's. "What is it with you and grass," she was asked, which elicited a peaceful smile. "Well," she said, pausing. "You mean, the green grass." 