 Andy Murray does not obviously have anything in common with a building site in south-west London. Both, though, are being touted as the future of British tennis - Murray as a role model, the building site as the seedbed of champions when it opens next year as the first National Tennis Centre. They are also at the core of the hottest debate in the British game, one that went up a few degrees after British interest in the year's first grand slam ended after barely 36 hours last Tuesday when Murray followed Tim Henman out in the first round at the Australian Open. At issue is whether Murray's eyecatching progress into the world's top 100 last year, while he was still 18, should be regarded as the road map that others should follow, which would make the Lawn Tennis Association's £40million national centre in Roehampton a massive waste of money; or whether a centre based on the one the French federation have had for several years is the way to emulate France, whose 13 men and 11 women taking part in the singles made them the best-represented nation in Melbourne. Murray's rise took place largely outside the LTA's structure, although he did receive financial help from the governing body. The important years in his development, when he stepped up from the juniors to the seniors, were spent at an academy in Barcelona, where the climate and standard of players he trained with were more conducive to improvement than anything the LTA's new project will be able to offer. Murray's coach, Mark Petchey, stirred the debate earlier this month when he spoke up for the not inconsiderable lobby who oppose the national centre, detractors who think it might be fortuitous that it is just a few hundred metres from The Priory, one of the favourite haunts of celebs fearing for their sanity. 'You have to question whether £40m is actually addressing the real issues in British tennis,' Petchey said. 'If you think that it does then you're totally misguided. That would be the simplest way to say it.' Petchey, formerly the LTA's head of men's national training, wondered where the players were going to come from to fill the centre and suggested that one could have been established for half the price in Spain or Portugal. He said the centre was one of the reasons he became disillusioned with the LTA while working there. Not surprisingly, Patrice Hagelauer, the Frenchman who pressed for the building of the national centre when he was the LTA's performance director from 1999- 2003, holds the opposing view. He may be back in Paris working for the French federation, but he remains convinced the centre is a good idea - and despairs at the criticism being directed at it. 'I find it so strange in Britain that as soon as someone has a good idea and starts to make it happen, there are people who want to drag it down. What for? Why? My first question to them is, "What is the alternative? What do you have to offer as a replacement?"' 'A national training centre is vital for every country. It creates a real identity and provides so many different things. Quite apart from the technical advantages of always having the best players to play against and the best coaches to help you, there is the medical back-up. Any injuries get the best attention immediately. Everybody is exchanging ideas on everything to do with the game and fitness. It creates the best possible atmosphere for everybody to improve.' Hagelauer became convinced a national centre was needed soon after arriving in Britain and finding that of the 3,000 clubs only 20 or so had junior programmes. The root of Britain's inability to produce champions was that tennis here was a pastime rather than a competitive sport. If the LTA wanted to have any credibility in turning things around, Hagelauer felt, they not only had to change the culture of tennis at the bottom of the pyramid, but have at the pinnacle a national centre not unlike the one in Paris that was capable of regularly turning out top-100 players. In France, those who run the centre say they regard its role as going beyond that of simply developing young players. They also identify its importance in helping players make that difficult transition from junior to senior - which Murray decided was best achieved by taking himself off to the Mediterranean sunshine - and then establishing themselves on the senior circuit. Lionel Faugere, who is the coordinator of the French centre, says they made 'a very great error' when, as they used to, they let players go at the age of 19 or 20. 'Now we help a lot of players between the ages of 18 and 23. When they are at the centre they are always participating together and then when one of our top players is in Paris he is always very happy to hit against the younger ones. It's a way for them.' In Britain, the first task under the new performance programme put in place by Hagelauer, and now being carried on by his successor, Tim Henman's former coach David Felgate, is to produce a generation of young players who have been properly prepared and could benefit from a national centre. There are signs, particularly among the girls, this might be starting to happen. The Ren sisters, 12-year-old Jennifer and Jessica, who is 11, from Sheffield, are among the promising set of younger players. Jennifer has just reached the semi-final for her age group at the Orange Bowl event in Florida, which, particularly at the lower end of the age scale with nearly all the world's top players entering, is a genuine indicator of potential. Her coach, Kate Warne-Holland, says: 'She came back with a real feeling that, "I am in the top bracket." I knew that but these players have to prove it to themselves.' Warne-Holland says there is 'a helluva batch of players coming through' among the girls, including Sian Bayliss, Amy Askew and Laura Robson. Prospects among the boys include the Londoner Oliver Golding, who impressed Andy Murray when he played for England against Scotland in the match in Aberdeen last November - although he might have to choose between tennis and an acting career, having performed on the West End stage - and, in a slightly older age group, the 16-year-old Dan Cox. Warne-Holland thinks the national centre will provide British tennis with a huge opportunity to improve itself. 'This is an opportunity we must not miss,' she says. 'We have to create a great environment for these younger players to train together more often and not to be afraid of that. Internal competition is fantastic and the national centre will only encourage that.' The best solution would be for British tennis to draw equally on the inspiration provided by Murray and the resources provided by the NTC. In this way, it might just lift itself to a level that at the moment exists only as a figment of the nation's optimism. 