 First there was the anger and then the tears. Wednesday night was drunks' night at Wimbledon. Greg Rusedski couldn't have been angrier if he'd been refused a drink a minute before closing time; Daniela Hantuchova couldn't have been more chin-wobbly if she'd downed a half-bottle of gin on her own in the corner of the pub. It made for some great sport. Rusedski has never been a particularly engaging fellow, and in 2000 was a worthy winner of this paper's Sports Poisonality of the Year Award, but when he reacted with concision and coherence to one of the most bufferish decisions of recent times I was cheering him all the way to the umpire's chair. His bland, cheesy personality was forgotten, here was a fiery man. It was as if a block of Edam had been transformed into a suppurating volcano of Gorgonzola. Could this heroic figure recover from such a tantrum to win the tournament? Sadly, not.  Others saw it differently. One chief sports writer huffed and puffed 'someone should have pulled his pants down and changed his nappy'...'not accustomed to this sort of nonsense'... 'made you ashamed to be English'. An overreaction equalled last week only by those who wailed about lapses of security at Prince William's party. Whatever happened to the days when it was de rigeur for the royals to have comedians at their parties in a lame attempt to convince commoners they had a sense of humour.  In the commentary box, there was similar hogwash. Barry Davies, at his most prim, said: 'We apologise on Greg's behalf for the language that he used.' Since when has he been Rusedski's spokesman? John Lloyd continued to be both wrong and dull. For minutes afterwards, he moaned, in his estuary flat tone, that Rusedski should have kept on playing. But, as everyone watching knew, Rusedski had kept playing and then Roddick, assuming as everyone else did that the call was from a linesman not a punter, had patted the ball towards a ball boy. Once his error was impressed upon him, Lloyd adopted the weak fall-back position: 'I don't know what the rules are.' In error and uninformed, it can only be days before he is offered a job running British tennis.  Even the normally reliable John McEnroe was slightly disingenuous, giving the impression that he has started to believe his own autobiography. He has allowed the myth to be created that every time he lost his temper he did so as a punchy piece of gamesmanship that always worked to his advantage. An argument that fails to take account of the French final in which he was two sets up against Ivan Lendl, lost the plot, then the match, and never came close to winning the tournament again.  This muddle-headed reaction is symptomatic of an attitude that permeates the blazered game. A sport that is founded upon the county system is imbued with county values. Dress properly, keep your chin up and for God's sake don't make a fuss and you'll be a credit to the county. From such a production line come the faceless losers who exited in the first round last week.  If even cricket can invest some of its money in a tournament that young people want to watch, surely tennis can redirect more of the profits from Wimbledon from the blazers to urban tennis centres where junior players are encouraged rather than looked down upon. The sport desperately needs to shed its county image and become more urban.  Instead of apologising for Rusedski, the experts should have been empathising with him. Imagine if you were derailed by an inexplicable decision, how angry would you be?  The fact that it supposedly wasn't a crucial point is beyond irrelevant. When you are playing at the pitch of intensity required to win such a match every point is of upmost importance. If you pick and choose which ones you care about you pretty soon end up not caring very much at all. The will to win is replaced by the hope you get by. Before long you are pocketing the cheques and avoiding the limelight.  Rusedski, at least, gave it his best shot. And those who were rendered 'ashamed to be English' (whatever that means) by his performance should have been watching the carry-on on Court Two when Hantuchova made her teary exit.  In the absence of Anna Kournikova, the tabloids targeted Hantuchova as their 'Babe of the fortnight' except that, hang on a minute, 'Where have her tits gone?'. Our readers might think we're gay if we keep plugging such a skinny, chestless... thing. So it was that 'Where have the tits gone?' became the story and a 20-year-old was hounded out of Wimbledon by a pack of photographers because she didn't have a page-three figure. When Barry Davies next feels the urge to issue apologies for others' behaviour perhaps he might apologise for that.  · You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk, or mail the Observer direct at  sport@observer.co.uk 