 Andy Murray caused scares about the Davis Cup and hinted at differences with his coach Mark Petchey after failing to avenge himself on the promising young Swiss player Stanislas Wawrinka. Murray claimed he had no say in the planning of a long United States trip which contributed to his weariness during a 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 defeat in the first round of the Nasdaq-100 Open late on Wednesday. The British No1 also ended an intermittently good performance with a deteriorating ankle strain and the suggestion that it might not be the worst thing if he missed the Davis Cup tie against Serbia & Montenegro in Glasgow starting on April 7 "because it would give me time off". As he is being enthusiastically billed as the first Scottish-raised player to play Davis Cup before a Scottish crowd, some would resent that view. But Murray made other surprising remarks. "It's tough when you're coming to the end of a long trip like this and you know you might have another kind of six, seven weeks of hard work before the next grand slam." Asked who set the schedule, he said: "My coach decides." Presented with the suggestion that he must also have a say, Murray twice said: "I don't, no." He added: "If I feel like I need a week's rest, I can say I'm not feeling great or I've got an injury. But you know it's up to my coach to make the schedule. That's one of the things I leave him in charge of. It's not worked badly so far." After leading 5-3, Murray lost his way, his tactics becoming incoherent and his length inconsistent. He fought back from 4-1 and two breaks down in the third set but still allowed Wawrinka too much time and room to dictate. Murray, who said he may take two weeks off in the clay-court season, aggravated his injury when Wawrinka switched direction with a pass. Murray twisted, fell and cried out alarmingly as he clutched his ankle brace. "It would have been a pretty bad sprain if I wasn't wearing that," he said, though the injury had not affected his movement. "We'll just have to see if I'm OK," Murray said of his Davis Cup chances. But later he said he might miss the tie. Later, Greg Rusedski produced arguably his best success for six months by winning 6-3, 6-1 against Mikhail Youzhny, the world No42 from Russia. Rusedksi heads Britain's squad, which has already lost Alex Bogdanovic. He rejected a place, raising suggestions that the Belgrade-born player fears playing against his native country. But Bogdanovic denies this, saying he "let everyone down" in the defeat by Israel and is "not ready to take that pressure on again". Rusedksi is joined by Arvind Parmar and Murray, with James Auckland of Norfolk given his first call-up. Auckland is only 10th in the British singles rankings, but is the highest-ranked doubles performer at No123 in the world. 