 Andrew Flintoff gave England a welcome fillip yesterday when he made a successful return to bowling as his rehabilitation from ankle surgery intensified. The all-rounder marked his first action with the ball in hand for six months by claiming two wickets for Lancashire in their 109-run victory over Sussex in their Pro Arabian Cricket Challenge match at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium. A double success in his opening three-over burst was followed by a return late in the innings as the 30-year-old, operating at a decent pace, finished with figures of 5-1-9-2. It was Flintoff's first bowl in a competitive match since England's defeat by India in the World Twenty20 Championship in Durban on September 19 last year and his county coach, Mike Watkinson, believes there is still a lot of room for improvement. "This is his first pre-season for a while," said Watkinson. "Everything has been full match intensity all the time in previous comebacks. I suppose he's bowling at 70% at the moment - he's not supposed to be anything like 100% - but his rhythm is good, his confidence is good and it all looks fluid. "The thing that helps here is that he's not building up to anything in particular - there's no deadline. We're just looking to play him as an all-rounder in our first County Championship match this season and then let's build on that." There have been initial talks between the England set-up and Lancashire with a view to Flintoff playing for the MCC against Sussex at Lord's in a four-day match starting on April 10. But with Lancashire's first championship fixture beginning the following week there will be inevitable concerns over the scheduling, and eight days of competitive cricket in 10 might be too many at that stage of his recuperation. "Discussions will probably take place when we get home as to the best value for him, whether he can play both games," said Watkinson. "We'll have to check about that. We'll have to decide the best way to stagger his workload to give him the overs he needs for recovery. We don't want him bowling every day of the week." Introduced for the ninth over of the innings yesterday, Flintoff's left ankle, which has undergone four sets of surgery, showed no ill effects. He struck twice in the space of four balls, trapping the opener Chris Nash leg before and then bowling Ben Brown. Earlier, batting at No5, he hit a six and two fours in a short-lived 15 but was stumped after being deceived by the left-arm spinner Tom Smith. 