 Gladys Heldman, a feisty American businesswoman who was a pioneer of women's professional tennis, did an acerbic line in irony when she paid tribute to Jack Kramer, the 1947 Wimbledon champion who turned promoter. She liked to say that Kramer, who had little truck with equal prize money, founded the women's tour when he announced in 1970 that the Pacific Southwest Championships of that year would pay the men $50,000 and the women $7,500. By a neat twist of fate, Kramer, aged 85, was a guest of honour at Wimbledon last year when the women finally achieved a treasured objective: equal pay. Venus Williams won £700,000, the same amount as Roger Federer. Williams, who will launch her challenge to retain the title on Centre Court on Tuesday, and her sister Serena are the embodiment of Heldman's dream for female tennis players. They have risen from an unprivileged background and are among the world's best-known athletes, A-list celebrities whose first names are enough to identify them, and members of sport's high-earning elite with multi-digit fortunes.  'You've Come a Long Way Baby' was an early slogan of the women's tour, but it had about it a hint of the 'Well done, well done' a parent might offer a child for taking a first, stumbling step. Not any more. Women tennis players are confident, quite capable of being as spiky as any of the men and able to boast as many noughts at the end of their bank balances as the leading males. Serena Williams has earned $19.3m and Venus $18.6m in prize money. With endorsements and sponsorship deals, those figures can be multiplied many times. How Heldman, who died five years ago, would have enjoyed this past week as the women's tour flaunted itself at some of central London's most fashionable locations. In 1970, Heldman persuaded the woman who would become her main accomplice, Billie Jean King - the most effective player activist the game has known - and seven others to accept $1 contracts to launch the Virginia Slims Circuit with a tournament in Houston. That amount would not even have paid for a glass of chilled water at the posh venue in Charlotte Street where the WTA launched a glitzy ad last Wednesday as part of a marketing campaign entitled 'Looking for a Hero?'.  What sweet music to Heldman it would have been to hear Serena Williams that night. 'For me tennis is hands down the premier sport for women athletes. If you look at it we make the most money and we play on the widest stage - from Australia to Asia to the United States to India,' she said. Smiling her way through the unforced error of omitting Europe, she added: 'I think, as the top sport, we kind of owe it to other athletes to do a marketing campaign like this one.'  The next evening Serena and Venus were at a big bash given by Sir Richard Branson at the Roof Gardens, the club he owns in Kensington, for members of the women's tour. The cost of the couture and accessories must have rivalled the entire outlay for costumes worn on Ladies' Day at Royal Ascot a few hours earlier - and that was just the outfits paraded by the five grandes dames of tennis: Ana Ivanovic, Maria Sharapova, Jelena Jankovic and the Williams siblings. Sharapova had arrived hotfoot from her own catwalk extravaganza at which the Maria Sharapova Design Show unfolded before, according to the promotional blurb, 'a select audience of international lifestyle journalists flown into London for the special occasion'. 'Sony Ericsson helped me create a collection of mobile phone accessories that I know people will use,' said Sharapova. If all this seems a long way from how those early pioneers might have spent an evening in the week before Wimbledon, Venus had already prepared us with a newspaper column in which she gave a breathless account of what she had been up to since regaining the Wimbledon title in 2007. "Wow! It has been a quick 12 months since I was here last year! Let's see, I graduated from fashion design school, launched my own clothing line, bought a new dog (Harold, he's very cool), went to India for the first time and so much more.' When Venus then entertained journalists at the large house in Wimbledon rented by the women's tour she started by handing each one a large signed copy of a coffee-table book that was a collection of portraits of her taken by the British fashion photographer Koto Bolofo. (Very nice they were, too, even if some of them might have had her locked up had they been taken when Lottie Dod was winning Wimbledon in the 19th century.) No question, the women's game has moved over several horizons in the past couple of decades and is now booming under the astute leadership of Larry Scott, the WTA's chief executive. But there are dangers that are particularly apposite in view of what is happening to the world economy. Boom times do not last forever. Scott says there are things that disturb his sleep, not least the physical and mental stresses that are heaped on young women trying to keep up in an extremely demanding and increasingly competitive job. The sudden retirement last month of Justine Henin, only 25 and the world number one, ended any complacency that the WTA were an organisation whose members were universally contented. Serena Williams referred to it on Wednesday night as 'a luxurious tour', but it is not so luxurious that Henin did not want to get off.  'I do continue to worry about the health and wellbeing of the players,' says Scott. 'A person like Justine Henin retires at 25 and almost every one of our players suffers with an injury of some kind. It's something not in your direct control, but it's one of the reasons I've been so laser-focused on the need to change the calendar and reduce the commitment of players. The game is just so deep, so competitive and so physical - and the technology hasn't helped.' Racket frames, strings, balls and court surfaces have all been developed to help players in every sense, including to help them damage themselves.  There has been criticism that some of the WTA's lucrative deals are not necessarily in the best interests of the women's game, and there are worrying signs that the tennis courts of the US may not for much longer produce home-grown stars to excite American interest. There is also perceived to be an overemphasis on the glamour of the current crop of players when it might be wiser to concentrate on attributes, such as athleticism and the thrill of top-class competition, that are more likely to be ever present.  At the end of last year, the influential American magazine Tennis questioned the WTA's decision to locate the end-of-year championships in Doha, even if the return was $42m in rights fees and prize money for the three years 2008-10. It described Qatar, where Doha is the chief city, as an unlikely world capital for women's tennis given that 'its 900,000 residents, three-quarters of them noncitizen labourers, live on a Persian Gulf peninsula about half the size of New Jersey that's covered by desert. More important, there are limited rights for women, who were unable to vote until 1999 and still dress in traditional clothes that reveal as little as possible.' Scott says weighing up between what is best for the tour and the big-money offers they receive is a constant balancing act. 'The players and the tournaments have a big desire for financial growth, exposure and more marketing, but at the same time we can't lose sight of where the bedrocks of traditional tennis interest are. So I think it's just about being smart and making good choices.' He says Doha is a good choice because of its location. It will ensure audiences that are five times the size of those that followed the year-end championships when they were held in Los Angeles, where the time zone meant it attracted poor TV audiences and missed newspaper deadlines in Europe, where journalistic interest is highest.  On the matter of the US producing fewer champions as children have an increasing number of distractions placed before them, Scott says he does have some concerns because it is important to have big stars from the major markets. 'But the first thing I'd say is, knowing Venus and Serena, I don't see them going anywhere anytime soon. I expect them to be a force in women's tennis for some time. Also we have Lindsay Davenport coming back. And I would never underestimate the ability of America to produce champions, even though it's not obvious right now.'  Washington-based Micky Lawler, of the management group Octagon, whose clients include Amelie Mauresmo, Jelena Jankovic and Elena Dementieva, says the failure of US players to win the big tournaments is less of a problem than it would have been a few years ago. She argues that, while the US has no intention of giving up on trying to produce winners of the major tournaments, Americans are quite happy engaging with the modern champions such as Russia's Sharapova and Ivanovic of Serbia, because they transcend borders. She gives as an example the interest generated in America by Ivanovic when she won the French Open two weeks ago.  The emphasis placed on the glamour of the leading women players is not easy to miss. Nor is it something exclusive to red-top newspapers. The websites of players such as Jankovic, Sharapova and Daniela Hantuchova do not exactly discourage the theory, put forward recently by the newspaper columnist Matthew Syed, that: 'There has always been a soft-porn element to women's tennis.' Syed went on to argue that there was nothing wrong with heterosexual men admitting to 'the occasionally erotic dimension of watching women's sport' - and if they did not admit it, he suggested, it was a sign of their being sexually repressed.  While this may not be an argument that Scott wishes to pursue, he does defend the promotion of glamour 'even if it is important that we never lose sight that the players are athletes first and this, first and foremost, is a sport.' He says: 'We live in an era in which the cult of personality dominates and every single sport is trying to promote their personalities and why their stars are interesting people. The rich personalities and the glamour of our athletes are the X factor that we just happen to be very fortunate to have at the moment.'  Lawler says it is nothing new that women's tennis has benefited from having a glamorous cast. 'If you look at women's tennis in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, it has always been quite a good fit for the feminine or glamorous athlete, from the days of Chris Evert, Gabriela Sabatini and Steffi Graf.'  To give old Jack Kramer his due, he was not acting alone in setting the prize money for that 1970 tournament in Los Angeles, although the defence of his action he put forward some years later was a little comical: he protested that he wanted the women's pot increased by all of $2,500, which would have still made it merely a fifth of the men's at $10,000, but was voted down by the committee. He was - and still is - a generous-hearted man whose views on equal pay were widely held at the time, even by some women. His language spoke for itself. 'When the Southwest only put up $7,500 for the dames, they pulled out screaming at me,' he wrote in his autobiography. And, although exasperated by Heldman, he respected her and said she was 'the smartest kid I ever ran into anywhere'.  He was right about Heldman, who founded World Tennis magazine and whose daughter Julie was a promising player. With the support, principally, of King, who would later take over as the championer - as well as the champion - of the women's game, Heldman swung into action with startlingly swift results. In 1969-70, total prize money for the women's pro circuit in the US had been $2,000; the following year the women played for $200,000. No one minded, or was too busy getting one over on the men to mind, that a fair whack of the money came from the tobacco company Philip Morris Inc, parent company of Virginia Slims, the brand that gave its name to the tour.  Scott acknowledges the debt that Sharapova, the Williams sisters and the many others who have prospered from women's professional tennis owe to Heldman. 'Gladys was there with the eight players and the one-dollar cheque, which we keep a photograph of in our boardroom as a constant reminder of that defining moment when women said, "OK, we're going to be professionals, we're going to go out on our own and do our own thing".'  Whoever steps forward to collect that cheque for £750,000 on Saturday week might like to cast an eye towards the heavens and say a little thank-you. Heldman's legacy is a prize that is 1,000 times more than Billie Jean King received when she became Wimbledon's first professional women's champion 40 years ago. 