  Tim Henman's hopes of doing well at the US Open in a fortnight's time endured a setback when he withdrew from the RCA Championships with an inflamed shoulder yesterday.  It happened less than 15 hours after a long and desperate struggle to reach the last 16, with the potential seriousness of the injury highlighted by the fact that this is the first time in more than 530 matches on the ATP tour that Henman has pulled out during a tournament.  He had been serving at reduced speeds during a 6-3, 1-6, 7-5 win against Nicolas Massu in a disconcerting match in which his normal policy of working his way forward was abandoned in favour of indiscriminate rushes to the net. Afterwards the shoulder worsened and Henman was taken to hospital for an MRI scan.  It means that he is now likely to go to Flushing Meadows for the last grand slam tournament of the year with only three hard-court wins to bolster him since his crushing semi-final defeat by Lleyton Hewitt at Wimbledon.  Martin Verkerk, a Dutchman ranked outside the world's top 100, suddenly finds himself ushered into the first ATP Tour quarter-final of his career.  Henman's injury at least threw light upon his puzzling performance against the Chilean when his service was vulnerable, his forehand inhibited, his tactics fretful and his performance forgettable except for the improbable fact that it proved good enough for him to join Greg Rusedski in the third round.  Henman won fewer points than Massu. He lost nearly 40% of points on his serve. He had no weapon to match his opponent's forehand. And after losing 12 points out of 13 to concede the second set he went 15-40 down at 4-4 in the decider. One more good blow from the Chilean in either of the next two rallies would almost certainly have sent the Briton packing his bags more prematurely still.  That he survived suggested something more obstinate in his make-up than his critics give credit for. Henman also survived because of his speed and because, eventually, the gesturing Massu became over-excited and served four double faults in a long and fraught final game.  It was a balmy, barmy and unpredictable Indiana night. Massu issued weirdly varied noises as he struck the ball, depending on the strength of his feeling that he could win, and cicadas maintained a screeching accompaniment.  Henman looked nonplussed, careworn, shackled. He spent much of the match gambling with chip-and-charges, serving and volleying more than he has all year and getting passed all too often. At four-all, 30-40, the biggest point of the match, he stayed back when, per versely, he would have been better getting forward.  That was because Massu's crucial return took a net cord and looked to be lurching into unprotected territory when Henman arrived like a mid-West express. Amazingly he controlled a sharply angled dink wide from one set of tramlines into the other. It was the shot of the match.  · Martina Hingis, the former world No1, has asked for a wild-card entry to the US Open, starting on August 26, having successfully made her comeback from an ankle injury in Montreal this week. 