 Lasith Malinga's action may well defy the laws of anatomy but not the laws of the game. Daryl Foster and Bruce Elliott, two leading cricketing biomechanists, are adamant that the Sri Lankan's unorthodox bowling style should be admired rather than admonished, as it pushes the boundaries of convention but remains within legal limits. Foster is well qualified to judge. While consulting with the Sri Lanka team seven years ago the Australian human-movement specialist first saw Malinga bowling on the streets and beaches of Galle. "Watching him for the first time was a bit like watching Murali for the first time," said Foster, a Cricket Australia board member. "I was coaching Kent at the time and Aravinda da Silva brought Murali down one year and at first I could not believe what I was seeing. It was the same with Malinga. You're startled, but then when you calm down and look at the technical points of his action, like the position of his feet, it is quite sound." Foster and Elliott believe that Malinga's loose joints and tendons, not an over-extending elbow, are the contributing factors to his action, one in which his right arm follows through in an almost horizontal position. It works, too, and Malinga is the top wicket-taker at the World Cup (13 from five matches) going in to today's Super Eight clash with England. "A lot of people from the sub-continent have a different range of motion to people from other parts of the world," Elliott said. "Malinga's action is taking Jeff Thomson's a step further. It's more side arm. It looks fine and I wouldn't have thought that it extended anywhere near [the legal limit of] 15 degrees. It's just very different. Round arm is not illegal." Foster went a step further, suggesting that those who have cast aspersions are xenophobic. "A lot of people see a different action and automatically think there must be something illegal about it," he said. "He might not look like Glenn McGrath, but his action is still legal. There's not much straightening, if there's any at all. It's just the lowest slinging action I have seen. "People on the sub-continent have different ligaments and tendons. They are not as tight in the joints and have far more flexibility than Caucasians. It's a genetic thing. I think it's great to see a distinctive action like this. A lot of cricketers are told to conform to the coaching manual, but sometimes people come along who can change the way bowling is viewed." 