 Andrew Flintoff has been ruled out for another six months, forcing him to miss the Indian Premier League and June's World Twenty20, after undergoing further surgery on his right knee this week. The all-rounder, who has not played since helping England to win the Ashes at The Oval last summer, had hoped to fulfil the second year of his contract with Chennai Super Kings in the IPL – worth $1.55m (£950,000) – and feature for England in the World Twenty20 in the West Indies. But he said tonight that he faces "another six months of hard rehabilitation" following the latest surgery, which was described as a routine arthroscopic operation to check the healing on his knee. He will not be in contention for a place in England's one-day teams before the games against Pakistan in September. "It is disappointing not to be able to play for Chennai, who have been very supportive throughout my time with them, but I took this decision because I love playing cricket and want to give myself the best chance of extending my career," he said. "I have worked extremely hard over the last few months to get to this position and realise there is a lot more hard work in front of me if I want to return and play international cricket again. But if I am going to go through another six months of hard rehabilitation and training for long hours, I need a big incentive to be the driving force of that and playing for Lancashire and England again will become that. "During my time in rehabilitation I have been watching England playing well in South Africa and it has made me realise how much I have missed cricket. For the first time in my career I have watched old footage of myself playing on YouTube and I want to get back to playing like that again." Flintoff has retired from Tests and had indicated he would play only one-day cricket, but he now hopes to play some County Championship games. "I did not think I would be able to play anything other than one-day cricket but the news of my recovery has led me to believe I may play in all forms of cricket for Lancashire," he said. Lancashire CCC Cricket Director Mike Watkinson said: "The latest update from the specialist indicates that Fred's right knee is recovering better than anyone expected following surgery for a micro-fracture. "It's this very positive report which has led to Fred's decision to play more than just one-day cricket for Lancashire. It is disappointing that he won't be able to return to action until midway through our season, but to have a stronger Fred available for all formats of cricket can only be a great thing for Lancashire." 