 Glamorgan have been indebted to their influx of New Zealand talent, James Franklin and Brendon McCullum, so far in this competition, but last night Franklin's bowling cost them a match they would have considered won when Gloucestershire required 37 off the last three overs. His 3.5 overs cost 58 and the last ball of his fourth over - the crucial 18th, which had already gone for 17 - had to be bowled by Richard Grant after the umpire George Sharp removed him from the attack for bowling two beamers. That ball was duly smashed over mid-wicket for six by David Brown as Gloucestershire's unlikely chase was turned on its head. It means they are already winners of their group and Glamorgan have been overtaken by Warwickshire - who beat in-form Northamptonshire last night to resurrect their own hopes of qualification for the quarter- finals - and need to beat Somerset tonight to have any chance of a quarter-final place. Franklin deserves some sympathy because the conditions throughout this match were awful, persistent heavy drizzle making the ball difficult to grip. Craig Spearman and Ian Harvey had made a rollicking reply to the home side's highest Twenty20 score of the season, hitting 74 from the first six overs. It was then that Glamorgan's captain Robert Croft gambled boldly, introducing the left-arm spinner Dean Cosker to the attack. It worked a treat: he trapped Harvey leg-before with his first ball and with the last delivery of that over McCullum dived well at mid-wicket to dismiss Mark Hardinges. Spearman continued plundering, passing 50 off 26 balls before Croft bowled him as he backed away, and it seemed that 191 would be beyond them. But the acting captain Alex Gidman played a match-winning innings of 52 not out from 35 balls. The result was particularly harsh on Glamorgan's Richard Grant, whose 77 from 44 balls was his best in any one-day cricket. As one six from Will Rudge smashed a window of the BBC Radio Wales commentary box it seemed that he had taken it upon himself to hasten the demolition of the ramshackle Sophia Gardens press box which, as part of the redevelopment before the Ashes Test here in 2009, has been scheduled for early August. Gloucestershire's batsmen had other targets in mind. 