 New Zealand's captain, Daniel Vettori, described last night's match as "a debacle" and criticised the umpires Steve Davis and Ian Gould for not making England bowl their overs more quickly after the second NatWest Series match was abandoned. Vettori said: "It feels almost like a loss, like that tie in Napier, which was also a game we should have won. It's been a tough tour so far so to pick up a win would have been fantastic. More could have been done to finish the game. England's over rate was particularly slow. In that situation we would have probably done the same. But you need the umpires to take control of the game and dictate the play." England took an hour to bowl their first 13 overs as the rain clouds drew closer and on more than one occasion fielders were swapped into identical positions. The players left the field for the last time with New Zealand 127 for two and needing just seven runs from the 20th over to win the match, provided they did not lose a wicket in the process under the Duckworth Lewis method. Vettori added: "There were a lot of little stoppages. Some were necessary and some were unnecessary. There was obviously a bit of gamesmanship going on and that's all part of the game and you can't attack England for that. But it comes down to the umpires. You need to get the game progressing as quickly as possible. I haven't had the chance to speak to the umpires but I will be mentioning it in my report." But England's captain, Paul Collingwood, denied that he was guilty of gamesmanship. "It certainly wasn't a tactical thing. We were probably chasing the ball a little bit at the time. I was watching the Duckworth/Lewis all the time and we were just one wicket away from clinching it. It's a shame it went down to the wire, with just one over to go before Duckworth/Lewis came into play." Both captains agreed that the 30 minute interval could have been trimmed to make sure the 16,000 crowd saw a result. Collingwood said: "The break is in the rules and regulations but to have that in a shortened game surprised us. We had all had our lunch before the game. We were ready to go out there in 10 or 15 minutes. It's something that needs to be looked at." Vettori added: "We could have reduced the break to ten minutes. We weren't tired."  Last night the Sky commentater Ian Botham described the match as "Daylight robbery. Why on earth did they take that half-hour break between innings?"  The ICC match referee, Javagal Srinath, cleared England of time wasting. "England were not in breach of any over rate," he said. "They had enough allowances. There were a few referrals to the third umpires, like checking on whether a four had been struck, and injuries so England were not in breach of anything. "There will be no action taken against England. They were well within the frame of the time that they were supposed to finish the overs taking into account the allowances." 