 England have dropped the strongest hint yet that they may be ready to risk reintroducing Kevin Pietersen to their dressing room for this autumn's four-Test tour of India, after delaying their selection to allow all the relevant parties to hold further talks. The announcement of the tour party had been due on Thursday, when the Twenty20 squad were flying out to Sri Lanka for their defence of the world title. But it has now been put back to next Tuesday, and the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has confirmed that it is to allow for further deliberation of the Pietersen problem. The team director, Andy Flower, will be in Colombo by then, but the new Test captain, Alastair Cook, is going nowhere, and it is thought that he has been the key figure in this unexpected turn of events. Cook's relationship with Pietersen goes back a fair way and he would obviously prefer to have him in the middle order for such an exacting challenge in his first series since succeeding Andrew Strauss as captain. But he will also have to convince the senior members of the England dressing room with whom Pietersen's relationship, which was rarely warm, has completely broken down this summer. The situation could still go either way, with many figures in the England setup having been unimpressed by Pietersen's behaviour in recent months. As well as Flower and the rest of his coaching staff, his recall would have to be approved by the managing director of England cricket, Hugh Morris, the national selector, Geoff Miller and his colleagues Ashley Giles and James Whitaker, and even Giles Clarke, the chairman of the ECB. That leaves plenty of room for division, which may explain why when it comes to Pietersen, England's indecision remains final. The suggestion at Old Trafford on Tuesday night, ahead of a selection meeting in Manchester the following day, was that Pietersen's name may not even be on the list of players available for consideration that was to be submitted by Morris and Flower. The selectors had a number of other tricky issues to ponder – a new opening batsman to replace Strauss, Ravi Bopara's recent lack of runs, a wicketkeeping deputy to Matt Prior, and spinning support for Graeme Swann. But none of those decisions could possibly have merited discussions running into a second week. It was way back on 6 August, after his brilliant innings in the drawn second Test against South Africa at Headingley, that Pietersen raised questions about his own future by complaining that "it's not easy being me" in the England dressing room. The frustrations with him went further back than that, as he had insisted on retiring from one-day international cricket at the end of May, and discussions with his representatives later in the summer confirmed their suspicion that he wanted greater flexibility to spend more time with the Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League. Then in that same August week between the second and third Tests it was reported that he had sent uncomplimentary texts about Strauss to friends in the South Africa team. His refusal to address that issue led to his exclusion from the third Test team, despite the interview he posted on YouTube in which he rescinded his one-day retirement. England then refused to recall him for the World Twenty20 and stripped him of his central contract. Omission from the India tour seemed the natural next step and would have reinforced the suspicion of many that the 32-year-old may never play for England again. Now, however, he could be back in the fold by the end of October, when Cook's squad will head to Dubai for a training camp ahead of the India tour. Dimitri Mascarenhas, who led Hampshire to Twenty20 glory last month, believes Stuart Broad can do the same for the England side in Sri Lanka. "There are a lot of very talented young players doing amazing things for their counties and England have picked the ones they have mind for this tournament, I don't see any problems with the squad," Mascarenhas said. 