 Shane Watson, the muscular but fragile Australia all-rounder, has retired from Test cricket at the age of 34 but is hoping to play on for his country in the limited-overs game. Watson was dropped after the first Ashes Test in Cardiff this summer, having gone wicketless with the ball and been out lbw twice after making starts with the bat. But he remained a part of the one-day squad until his tour was ended prematurely when he suffered a calf strain during his side’s 64-run win over England at Lord’s on Saturday. Injuries, as well as leg-before dismissals and a penchant for sending decisions upstairs, have been a feature of his career. Watson, who was a part of Australia’s World Cup-winning team earlier this year, hopes that by ending his involvement in Test cricket after 59 caps, his chances of continuing as a white-ball specialist for his country will be improved. “It’s been a decision that hasn’t come about lightly but I just know it’s the right time to be able to move on and still, hopefully, play the shorter formats of the game,” he said. “I’ve been through a lot of different waves of emotion about what the right thing is for myself, my family and most, importantly, the team as well.” Since his Test debut against Pakistan in 2005, Watson has batted at every position in the top six, with his most profitable spell coming as an opener. His 3,731 runs at an average of 35.19 – including four centuries and 24 fifties – fell short of some expectations given his undoubted talent and crisp technique. As a right-arm fast-medium bowler, his 75 wickets at 33 were achieved despite a rebellious body, and his career-best figures of six for 33 came against Pakistan at Headingley in 2010. Watson shares his critics’ frustrations about his returns but he insists he could not have tried harder. “I haven’t achieved all the things I dreamed of achieving in Test cricket – an average of 50 with the bat and in the 20s with the ball,” he said. “That’s obviously the dream as an all-rounder and I didn’t get anywhere near that. But I do know I gave it everything I possibly can to be able to get the best out of myself. “Early on in my career I realised that I can’t worry about what people think, whether they like me or don’t like me, appreciate me or don’t appreciate me. In the end all I’ve done is tried to get the absolute best out of myself.” In a two-year spell as vice-captain, Watson led his country once in the fourth Test against India in Mohali in 2013 in the absence of the injured Michael Clarke, despite having been suspended for the previous match due to his involvement in the “Homework-gate” fiasco that engulfed a dysfunctional tour. A career-best 176 came against England at the Oval in 2013, while he played in all five Tests of Australia’s Ashes whitewash victory in the return series. Australia’s head coach Darren Lehmann said: “Shane has been a fantastic servant for Australia in Test cricket and he has had a terrific career in that format. He has been an outstanding contributor to the team on and off the field and a great thinker on the game as well as a hugely talented cricketer. Behind the scenes he has done so much work with our younger players and that has been something that has really impressed me.” 