 Even Michael Vaughan didn't quite seem sure what to make of England's win. A few moments after telling the press yesterday that "I never think the game's up", he conceded his side had been "dead and buried". Not long after explaining that the ball had been "skidding on" during the first innings, he declared that batting on Saturday - when he made 30 off 133 balls - had been tricky because the ball "seemed to be slow off the pitch". But somehow his contradictions were in tune with the spirit of a Test match which left the Spin unsure whether England have taken a step forward, or two steps forward after one step back, or three steps etc and so on. Amazing wins - and make no mistake: this was amazing - can camouflage more mundane deficiencies. The facts are these: with about 40 minutes to go before tea on the third day, New Zealand were 85 for two. Daniel Flynn was not going to bat, but with the lead already 264 you did not sense he was a great loss. Quite simply, England were going to lose. That they ended up winning can be put down to the accuracy of Monty Panesar, the third-innings frailties of New Zealand, the heavy roller, the guts of Andrew Strauss and the urgency of Vaughan's running on the fourth morning. Well played England. Just don't pretend everything is hunky-dory. Vaughan proudly pointed out that England have won three of their five Tests against New Zealand this year. True, but in each of those three games defeat was never more than a bad half-hour away. At Wellington, a first-day score of 136 for five could have proved terminal if New Zealand hadn't fed Tim Ambrose's square-cut. At Napier, it just needed one more wicket to turn four for three and 36 for four into a rout. At Old Trafford, New Zealand required someone - anyone! - to hang around for an extra half hour on Sunday. England's ability to dig themselves out of holes is to be applauded, but their tendency to be there in the first place is not. South Africa will not be so generous. It's a measure of the lack of confidence in the middle order right now that when Kevin Pietersen crazily ran himself out yesterday with only 56 needed, anxious glances were exchanged - and with good reason. Ian Bell was a bungled dolly by Iain O'Brien away from a failure which might have cost him his place at Trent Bridge, while Paul Collingwood has never looked more ill at ease: when he reached 11 yesterday, he moved to 50 runs for the season in eight innings for Durham and England. He will be under real scrutiny in Nottingham. The bowling, for all Panesar's brilliance on Sunday, is a concern too. At one stage during New Zealand's first innings, the England attack went nearly 50 overs without a bowler taking a wicket. Even the two run-outs in that period had as much to do with Kiwi doziness than England brilliance (although the continued sharpness in the gully of Alastair Cook is a genuine cause for excitement). More and more, the return of Andrew Flintoff as part of a five-man attack that can carry the wicket-taking waywardness of Jimmy Anderson and the youthful promise of Stuart Broad looks like the only hope of taking on Australia. And that is dependent on Flintoff actually scoring some runs. You may feel that all this is to carp unnecessarily. But the Spin is desperately trying to fight another feeling right now. And that is this: sooner or later, England's big-name players will stop rescuing them. If that happens, things could get very ugly indeed. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o QUOTE OF THE WEEK "My team told me that they have yet to meet a better human being than me" - Not content with being one of India's richest and most famous men, Kolkata Knight Riders owner Shah Rukh Khan also happens to be a paragon of goodness. Some blokes have all the luck. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o EXTRAS The Spin headed for The Oval last week in anticipation of watching Mark Ramprakash score his 100th hundred, but ended up instead watching a vignette which ought to silence once and for all those who deny the county game is a vicious world of dog-eat-dog. Or perhaps pigeon-eat-pigeon. As Surrey's Matt Nicholson carved his way towards a fourth first-class hundred, a ferocious cut shot headed towards a flock of pigeons, minding their own business in the third-man region. But one of the flying rats got unlucky: as her colleagues took flight in the nick of time, she was hit by the ball, sending a flurry of feathers into the air - a moment that was captured in its gory glory by the photographer Graham Morris. But her ordeal had only just begun. As the wounded bird lay rooted to the spot, a male colleague wandered over, appraised the situation, and promptly took advantage of her immobility in the most heinous manner imaginable. As the press box erupted to cries of "they're animals!" another pigeon waddled over to assess her mate's plight. Alas, she was to prove anything but the cavalry: far from providing a rescue act, she began pecking at the unfortunate creature's head, and it needed swift action from Rana Naved, Yorkshire's Pakistan seamer, to wander over from fine leg and shoo away the miscreants. By this stage, the pigeon was on her back, feet in the air and looking like she'd seen better days. Naved picked her up and carefully laid her to rest beyond the boundary. Back in 1936, a sparrow was killed at Lord's in a mid-air collision with a ball delivered by Jehangir Khan during a game between MCC and Cambridge University. It was subsequently stuffed and mounted on the ball that killed it, and still has pride of place in the Lord's museum. Without wishing to make hackneyed comparisons between life north and south of the river, the Spin suspects the dead pigeon will not exactly get a state funeral along the Harleyford Road. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o THE WEEK IN CRICKET · Shane Warne's Rajasthan Royals confirm their place in the semi-finals of the Indian Premier League with a six-wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders at Eden Gardens. · Ravi Bopara says he may reconsider his decision not to join the IPL if England keep refusing to pick him. "The decision I made [not to join the IPL] was just based on this season. I don't know what my decisions will be in the future, but if things continue as they are, and the offer comes along again, then I'll have a think about it," he says. · In the match of the IPL so far, Kings XI Punjab beat Mumbai Indians by one run at the Wankhede. Mumbai need 19 off VRV Singh's last over to win with three wickets in hand, and manage in effect 11 off the first ball (a no-ball hit for six, followed by four). But three run-outs follow and Kings XI are all but through to the last four, an outcome confirmed by later results. · The reigning champions Sussex beat the champion leaders Nottinghamshire by 73 runs at Trent Bridge thanks to innings of 131 and 64 from Matt Prior. Mark Ramprakash fails in his attempts to notch his 100th first-class hundred, making just 29 and 14 against Yorkshire at The Oval, where 205 from Mark Butcher, along with centuries for Surrey's Matt Nicholson and Usman Afzaal and Yorkshire's Jacques Rudolph and Andrew Gale condemn the game to a draw. · To cheers from practically no one outside Spin Towers, Northamptonshire claim their first championship win of the season, walloping Glamorgan by an innings in Swansea. · Stuart Clark takes five for 32 as Australia survive a second-innings slip-up to beat West Indies by 95 runs in the first Test at Kingston in Jamaica. The Aussies collapsed to 18 for five following Ricky Ponting's immaculate first-innings 158, but Andrew Symonds hits 79 to leave West Indies needing 287, before Clark mops up on the final day. · Andrew Strauss makes 106 as England successfully chase 294 to beat New Zealand by six wickets in the second Test at Old Trafford after conceding a first-innings lead of 179. Monty Panesar is man of the match for his collapse-inducing second-innings haul of six for 37, relegating Ross Taylor's pyrotechnical 154 not out off 176 to an undeserved footnote. The third and final Test starts at Nottingham in nine days' time. · Nepal's left-arm seamer Mahaboob Alam takes all 10 wickets for just 12 runs as Mozambique are bowled out for 19 in division five of the ICC World Cricket League in Jersey. Nine batsmen are out for ducks, while Alam found himself on a hat-trick three times. · Delhi Daredevils are through to the last four of the IPL after Mumbai Indians suffer a last-ball defeat to Rajasthan Royals in Jaipur. · Darren Gough says he will retire at the end of the season. "I'm 37, we've got some good youngsters coming through and I'll be 38 when I've retired," he says. "I think I've had a good innings and it's time to call it a day." o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o CONTACT THE SPIN Email lawrence.booth@ and feel free to cc. sports.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk while you're at it. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o OUT! If you wish to unsubscribe from The Spin, send an empty email to The_Spin-request@guardianunlimited.co.uk with "unsubscribe" in the subject line and nothing in the body of the mail. You can also subscribe and unsubscribe at http://sport./thespin  © Guardian News and Media Limited 2008, Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396, Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP Visit  - the UK's most popular newspaper website http:// http://observer.co.uk ------------------------------------------------------------------ 