 New selectors there may be but in naming an unchanged squad for the final Test against New Zealand, which begins at Trent Bridge on Thursday, Geoff Miller and his men are doing little but reinforce the popular perception that cricket is a batsman's game. When earlier in the year, in Hamilton, England were bowled out for 110 to lose the first Test, the response was to drop two bowlers. Had they been dismissed for half that, no doubt the second Test would have heralded a totally new attack.  So it is no surprise that a batting line-up that has failed to register a first-innings 400 in 11 Tests since that against West Indies at Chester-le-Street a year ago is to be retained wholesale, on the back of the spurious cliché that form is temporary - though only for batsmen; bowlers get sent back to rediscover their rhythm in county cricket while batsmen are indulged in the knowledge that one day they will manage a score. They might well do but it will prove little: given infinite time, Geoffrey Boycott's granny would score a Test match hundred, and wearing her pinnie too. The fact is that we will never know what the alternatives might have contributed to the side if we do not make changes to it. As it turns out, it seems that the win at Old Trafford must have been a significantly better performance than it appeared to those who watched, the game resurrected as it was for England by a combination of Monty Panesar's bowling, Andrew Strauss' batting and Kiwi reluctance to prove, to themselves as much as anyone, that they are a side capable of winning more Tests than they do.  Had England lost the match, would there have been changes? Almost certainly, so the fact that Ian Bell and Paul Collingwood, painfully between them, hobbled England over the line with a couple of unbeaten twenties was surely not enough not to warrant the severe examination of their position that would have taken place should the game have gone the other way. Both are talented individuals, Bell so obviously naturally gifted and Collingwood the one who has squeezed the most of his abilities - the sort of batsman you want to have playing for your life. But Bell continually fails to make the running, his hundreds, all of them, coming on the back of runs by others, while Collingwood is batting in Braille at present and has been all summer. If bowlers can rediscover themselves in the ranks, so too ought the batsmen. Meanwhile both Owais Shah, Ravi Bopara, the latter the more obvious replacement for Collingwood, and others will continue to wonder at the cosiness of it all. Should fitness hold up and England decide to go into the match with an unchanged side, it would be for the fifth straight match, since the dropping of Steve Harmison and Matthew Hoggard for the Wellington Test, a demonstration of selectorial faith and continuity that has not been in evidence for 123 years. Only the inclusion of Chris Tremlett at the expense of one of the seamers, or the dropping of a batsman to allow a four-man pace attack to operate alongside Panesar, would change things and this seems unlikely. There is much about the prospect of a Trent Bridge Test that suggests the game will be a struggle for batsmen, with no side this season having topped 279 in a completed innings, with the average score 226 and the average first-innings score 13 fewer than that. Tremlett, immensely tall, has demonstrated the capacity to get steep bounce from the Trent Bridge pitch, taking three for 12 in the second innings against India last year and 11 wickets in two championship matches for Hampshire. The inconsistency of the England seam attack at Old Trafford was another area of concern to sit alongside the batting, with James Anderson leaking runs at a ludicrously spendthrift rate and Stuart Broad bowling 24 wicketless overs on a helpful pitch. If and when Andrew Flintoff returns, and with him perhaps Harmison and Simon Jones, both of whom are putting in encouraging performances for Durham and Worcestershire respectively, then the ecology will be upset. But it is unlikely the selectors will want to do anything like that for Trent Bridge just to make way for a bowler whose temperament has been scrutinised too often in the past. 