 Senior officials of the England and Wales Cricket Board and the International Cricket Council remain confident that the World Twenty20 championship will be staged in England next summer despite the ICC's decision, confirmed privately yesterday, to relocate its annual conference away from Lord's for the first time in 99 years. The decision, prompted by doubts over whether Peter Chingoka, the chairman of Zimbabwe Cricket, would be admitted to the UK to attend the conference, raises fresh questions over the viability of next summer's tournament. It has also highlighted tensions between the ECB and Zimbabwe Cricket, with one senior source suggesting yesterday that Chingoka had misled the ICC. England's hosting of the World Twenty20 has been threatened by the British government's hardline attitude to Zimbabwe and those with links to Robert Mugabe's Zanu-PF regime, which is clinging to power after the controversial election. Sporting links between the UK and Zimbabwe are officially under review, prompting concerns that the Zimbabwe cricket team would not be admitted to the UK for the tournament, or for a one-day series against England earlier in the summer. Those fears appeared to be justified with government sources indicating that there was little chance of Chingoka being granted a visa. Chingoka subsequently claimed his application for a visa had been blocked, but in fact he had not formally applied, having requested that his passport be returned by the British consulate to allow him travel to India for the Indian Premier League.  His version of events prompted an angry response from the ECB. A senior source said: "Once again Peter Chingoka has demonstrated his ability to misrepresent the facts. It is fundamentally untrue that he was refused a visa. Our understanding is that he asked for his passport to be returned to him so that he could join several other members of Zimbabwe Cricket enjoying the hospitality of the Indian board." ECB executives met with government officials on Wednesday to discuss the Zimbabwe issue and were reassured that, while it is unlikely that the one-day series between England and Zimbabwe would be allowed to go ahead, the World Twenty20 was not under threat.  The ICC is also confident that the tournament will be held in England, believing that any ban on Zimbabwe's players or officials would be a breach of the staging agreement struck when England was awarded the tournament. The ICC argues that the World Twenty20 is analogous with the Olympics, for which the government is obligated to grant access and freedom of movement to all athletes, officials and media accredited by the IOC. The move away from Lord's also threatens the ICC's plans for its centenary celebrations next year, which were expected to centre on HQ. It also means that David Morgan, the incoming president of the organisation, will be the first leader of the world governing body not to be formally appointed in the Long Room. 