 The latest twist in the tormented saga that is Shoaib Akhtar's career has once again thrown a spotlight on the inconsistent and unpopular decision-making processes of the Pakistan Cricket Board. The resulting confrontation may spell the end of the line for the PCB's chairman, Nasim Ashraf. Shoaib's counter-claims in response to the PCB's decision to ban him for repeated breaches of discipline have led to an escalation of the dispute, and can be summarised as thus: first, that Ashraf ordered Shoaib's ban in response to the player's refusal to give Ashraf a "cut" of his highly lucrative contract with Indian Premier League team the Kolkata Tigers. Second, that Shoaib was offered money by individuals to underperform, which he refused. "What do I get in return - a five-year ban the example of which you don't get anywhere in the cricket world. Even players who were fined and found involved in match-fixing issues didn't get such bans," Shoaib said. The PCB intends to start legal action against Shoaib and seek damages to the tune of 200m rupees for his defamatory remarks. Shoaib, meanwhile, will be asked to substantiate his claims with documentary evidence and solid testimony. Given his previous brushes with the law - most notably the sketchy evidence he offered during a PCB tribunal into the doping scandal - there seems little hope for him in a formal court of law. Yet Shoaib, if he is a man who takes solace in revenge, can seek comfort in certain goings on in Pakistan. Ashraf, like his predecessors, was appointed directly by the president of Pakistan - in this case Pervez Musharraf, who's having a tough time of it in the national political scene and has to chose his fights carefully. Resentment has festered for some time over Ashraf's approach to managing the board, while his credentials have been questioned time and again. His background is neither in sport nor management - he is a medical doctor who spent most of his career in the US. He is also the chairman of Pakistan's National Commission for Human Development, to which he was also appointed by Musharraf. Since taking over in 2006 in the aftermath of the Oval controversy, he has failed to turn things around and has in fact presided over one of the worst periods in Pakistan's cricket history. Shoaib, meanwhile, has cosied up to six anti-Musharraf legislators in the new government, who have filed a motion in the National Assembly to get him reinstated. In a land where cricket is a religion, comparisons to last March's confrontation between deposed chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry and Musharraf are not too far-fetched. Imran Khan has taken the opportunity to call for the democratisation of the board, while players such as respected batsman Younis Khan have come out in Shoaib's defence. Shoaib's bullish press conference at the Rawalpini press club, where he was cheered on by hundreds, is another show of strength. But it is highly unlikely, although not impossible, that Shoaib can come back from the latest scandal. His latest outbursts, if unsubstantiated, would again prove that he is his own worst enemy. But the legendary cricketer may seek solace in the fact that he will be taking an unpopular administration down with him. 