 The England team in their hideous new brilliant-white flannels look as if a dodgy soap powder ad man has been knocking on their dressing-room door. Beside them New Zealand looked strangely soiled and sullied in their traditional clotted cream. But that was misleading. These Kiwis are so callow that one was tempted to telephone the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children yesterday. The touring side were unlucky. The past few days have felt like August but damp and sappy spring returned to hit them in the face like a wet fish. England opted to bowl but it is doubtful that they would have done so had they been up against a more experienced batting side. The pitches here at Lord's can be belters. Two of New Zealand's top six, Aaron Redmond and Daniel Flynn, had not played a Test match before yesterday; five of them shared only 19 Test caps between them. It showed. Jamie How, Redmond, James Marshall, Ross Taylor and Flynn faced only 146 balls and scored 59 runs between them. And it would have been even worse had England bowled as they should have in these conditions. In essence the real batting started when New Zealand were five wickets down and the hoary hands of Brendon McCullum and Jacob Oram came together and almost doubled the score. New Zealand's less than famous five are not as young as one might think. Their average age is 26. But they are desperately inexperienced, rushed into service after a series of retirements. Gone are Stephen Fleming, Lou Vincent, Craig McMillan and Scott Styris, and they have been replaced by men who are still learning. One had to feel for poor Redmond. He expected to make his debut in bowler-friendly conditions at 11am. Then the start of play was put back to 11.20, then 12.20. He lasted five balls, edging Jimmy Anderson low to Alastair Cook at third slip. There can scarcely be a greater contrast between the fortunes of father and son on debut. Rodney Redmond is the most celebrated of cricket's one-cap wonders. A tall and dominating opener, he scored 107 and 56 on debut against Pakistan in the 1972-73 series and never played again. He came to England in 1973 but had problems with his contact lenses and disappeared from the scene. Aaron has reinvented himself. He was a leg-spinner with Otago before he became a hard-grafting opening batsman with Canterbury. He came here on the back of big runs against the England Lions but he is a work in progress. How edged a beauty to the wicketkeeper before Taylor, who seems a real prospect, played a stroke that looked too ugly for even a Twenty20 game. Flynn played a forgettable shot too, having his leg-stump knocked back via his pads as he walked across his crease. And then it was the turn of the seniors. There were few people at Lord's who did not want McCullum to turn his thrilling innings into three figures. And as he strong-armed his way past fifty the England bowlers looked even more like painters and decorators than they had at the start. 