 Only one achievement stands between Monty Panesar and the status of bona fide, gilt-edged English Test star: a long-term injury. After all, it's done the job for Simon Jones: never a greater match-winner than since he stopped playing matches. Michael Vaughan, meanwhile, has become cricket's Moby Dick, occasionally rising from the depths to scare the willies out of people with talk he may have played his last. The psychological war is clearly getting to Ricky Ponting, who last week conjectured that perfidious Albion was at work, and that Vaughan and Jones were malingering deliberately: "It's a long time to get over any sort of injury. I'm pretty sure they will want Vaughan and Jones if they can get them here. We are preparing to play a full-strength side." On the eve of the Old Trafford Test, Bob Woolmer demonstrated why he is among the game's subtlest psychologists with the proposition that Freddie Flintoff's absence was a plus for England: "It would have given our team a psychological boost to play against a player of his quality. It is not a positive for us that he is missing." Given the psychological boost that Monty's quality will now be giving Pakistan, England's only hope at Leeds is that he scalds himself at the tea urn on Friday. Between five or six specialists recommending everything from knee reconstructions to brain surgery, this indisposition can probably be prolonged sufficiently to preclude his playing in Australia. Victory in Manchester may, in fact, have been a little disarming in its speed. Two English players took wickets; two made serious runs. Pakistan, a momentum side, can be stopped by such body blows; Australia, more resourceful and adept at regrouping, will not be so straightforwardly usurped. That leaves plenty of work for what is laughingly called England's injury-management programme, where men enter what looks like a St John Ambulance caravan and somehow end up needing the services of House MD, and from which Geraint Jones will probably emerge with a plaster cast up to his shoulder on the wrong arm. What has gone wrong this summer? Perhaps the question should be turned on its head: what went right in 2005, when England had to make one forced change in five Tests? This, I suspect, was more than simply luck. The Ashes last year was a series to die for; by inference, it was also one to hurt for. How else to explain Flintoff's 18 consecutive overs of brazen hostility at The Oval, more significant even that Pietersen's hundred to the final outcome, after a summer of unremitting toil? So much about 2006 has been about jockeying for position ahead of the Ashes rematch that it must have influenced the priorities both of players and officials. There's been overcaution and overeagerness, with an eye on the royal road to The Gabba for November 23. Had a winter tour to Pakistan been in the offing, different attitudes may have prevailed. Given recent history, when some England players have looked decidedly leery of playing Australia, this constitutes a not unwelcome change. In some ways, the increasing profusion of injury is an outcome of professionalism. There are further, deeper and longer-term considerations than simply getting on the park for tomorrow's game, while central contracts have softened the immediate financial impact of near-term unavailability. But the prospect of being part of history still makes a sportsman's sap rise. Monty is bound to sustain an injury at some stage - no one who fields like him can avoid it indefinitely. For the sake of the Ashes, it would be well if he could stave off this rite of passage for at least six months. Hirst stands alone in age of unnatural attrition Is cricket more gruelling than it was? A pity such discussions usually deteriorate into biomechanical gobbledygook about fast-twitch fibres versus tales of Alec Bedser bowling 50-over spells in a pair of clogs. In the current climate of unnatural attrition, though, an anniversary is worth nodding to. It is a hundred years since Yorkshire's George Hirst attained the unprecedented and unequalled feat of 2,385 runs and 208 wickets in a first-class season. Perhaps cricket was not then so physically extending; certainly it was not so varied in its forms. But a pitch was still 22 yards, grounds then perhaps larger than today, and Hirst had to bat 58 times and bowl 7,838 deliveries: the accomplishment of an athlete who understood the strengths and limitations of his own body - in a way Liam Plunkett, who against West Indies A should obviously have been carried to the crease in a sedan chair with a dialysis machine on standby, does not. Clifford's words of wisdom put logic into a spin Whether Max Clifford is advising Steve McClaren or not, he certainly seems close at hand, which should please the Football Association. During the revelations of McClaren's extramarital misadventures in May, Clifford played a useful role in evolving the successful she-fell-on-my-penis response. What was interesting last week, however, was Clifford's recipe for success in dealing with the media, which suggested a man in thrall to his craft rather than to McClaren's specific needs, effortlessly leaping huge contradictions in a single bound. "It's important that you always tell it as it is and that there are no special favours. You treat as you find." So everyone will be treated the same, except when they are treated differently. "At the end of the day, Steve wasn't running or selecting the team when Sven was manager." But at the other end of the day: "No one's been closer to the centre of the system. He's able to ascertain what worked, what didn't work and which players did what." So he's been at "the centre of the system" for six years and yet studiously exerted no influence on it: sounds like he was lucky to keep his job let alone secure a promotion. Alternatively, that he was for Sven before he was against him. Or vice versa. "He doesn't need to hammer it home, but I do think he needs to make it very clear that they did things Sven's way and now they're going to do things Steve's way." So don't "hammer it home" but do "make it very clear". If McClaren can emphasise without emphasis, then, he'll persuade without persuasion. And you thought it was all 4-4-2 or 4-3-3, eh? "I represented OJ Simpson when he was accused of murder, which was certainly a bit tougher." Hey, if anyone can spin it, Max can. Lerner deprives hacks of Villa name game The decision not to enter the bidding for Aston Villa by Cleveland Browns owner Randy Lerner is a loss to lovers of seaside postcard humour, his name being eerily reminiscent of one of Sven's hotel aliases. The truth be told, Randy may have found the Villa nomenclature a little drab. The Browns' hierarchy contains characters who seem to have stepped from the pages of Martin Amis, such as Romeo Crennel, Phil Savage and Carmen Policy; its history is illuminated by the likes of Webster Slaughter, Mac Speedie and Milt Plum, who could easily be characters of Ring Lardner. Villa's hopes for a future of pun-filled headlines now hinge on Athole Still. A nation - of sub-editors - is holding its breath. 