 After catching a cold by not bringing a spare opening batsman for the Ashes series in England, Australia almost went down with swine flu by bringing only one specialist wicketkeeper. Perhaps it is because Ian Healy and Adam Gilchrist shared the keeper's duties for 20 years (1988-2008) – if we overlook Phil Emery's solitary appearance in Lahore in 1994 – that Australia appear to take their keepers for granted. The selectors thought long and hard about putting all their eggs in Brad Haddin's basket when they sat down to pick their squad for this trip. Some thought that Mike Hussey or Phillip Hughes could keep in an emergency. That would have left them looking red-faced on Thursday morning when Haddin, Australia's leading run-scorer in the series, was forced out of the side with a broken finger. England's sporting behaviour in allowing Graham Manou to play after the team had been confirmed, with Haddin in it, was ridiculously overplayed yesterday. The real story would have been if Andrew Strauss and the England management had refused. If there is no spirit within cricket, the game is simply not worth playing. There was never any chance of England saying no. Manou was rushed into the team so quickly that he did not even have time to pick up his baggy green cap. That was awarded to him on Friday. He is 30, just as Wally Grout was when he won his first cap for Australia in 1957. This might persuade people to think that he and Haddin are the only two keepers in Australia, which would be unfair. Manou has come through ahead of Luke Ronchi, of Western Australia, Chris Hartley (Queensland), Matthew Wade (Victoria) and Tim Paine (Tasmania). Ronchi, 28, became Australia's No2 keeper after Gilchrist retired. He is an outstanding top-order hitter, with a strike rate of 205.40 from his four one-day internationals. Wade, 21, who is also an Australian Rules footballer, is a left-hander capable of playing long innings. Hartley, 27, and Paine, 24, are also keepers who can bat. But none of them have played in a Test match. England, with great wicketkeeping traditions, still have the greater strength in depth. Tim Ambrose and the unlucky James Foster have played 17 Tests between them and, although Chris Read and Geraint Jones look unlikely to play for England again (Matt Prior is becoming established and the selectors await the qualification of Somerset's Craig Kieswetter next year), there is plenty of experience in the shires. While the world has been full of classy wicketkeeper-batsmen in recent years (just who do Prior, Kumar Sangakkara, Mahendra Dhoni, Mark Boucher and Brendon McCullum think they are?), Manou is something of a throwback. He has good hands – he is considered better behind the stumps than Haddin – and looks something of a late-order hitter. Two of his first three balls in Test cricket were hit to the ropes on Friday, though he did not last long. Manou might be a tyro at this level, but he was given a contract and picked for this tour because he is battle-hardened, having played 88 games for South Australia in a decade as a first-class cricketer. When he was out for a first-ball duck at Northampton, the warm-up game for the Edgbaston Test, he might have wondered whether he would feature again on this tour. But he scored an unbeaten half-century in the second innings and then, on Thursday, came his big chance in a Test. He looked tidy in the little time we had to view him on Friday, though the ball did not move around for the Australian fast bowlers as it had done for England's.  Today we might be able to make a sounder judgement. He has some character. He was dropped by South Australia after a poor run with the bat in 2006 and missed the game against England that winter. But he scored a career-best 190 against Tasmania in 2007 and was given the captaincy of the side last season. Two Pura Cup centuries in his 647 runs, together with his 33 dismissals, eased him ahead of his rivals and on to the plane for England. The previous season, he had replaced Shane Deitz in the state team and proved himself to be a batsman of some substance. With 596 runs at an average of 37.25, he was the leading scorer in the South Australia side. A promising junior, he was voted player of the tournament when he captained his state in the 1997-98 national under-19 carnival in Melbourne. In 1999-2000 he replaced Tim Nielsen, the current Australia coach, in the side. His athletic and technically sound keeping caught the eye immediately, though batting was a battle for him at first – he made ducks in four of his first five innings in the first-class game. His girlfriend is Tamsyn Lewis, the Australian middle-distance runner who has won three Commonwealth Games gold medals. He was born with a hole in his heart, which was discovered after he felt chest pains when he was 11. Two years ago, he organised a 960-mile Tour de Heart bike race from Alice Springs to Adelaide to raise money for cardiac research. He did this again last year, but had to cancel his plans for another event this year because of the Ashes tour. 