 They say that stag parties are getting out of hand but that accusation could hardly be levelled against the group down at third man yesterday. Not for them the hedonistic pursuits of Prague, Riga or Amsterdam, dancing naked in public fountains or urinating down side streets. They spent most of the day watching Alastair Cook bat. Cook possesses many fine qualities but stag batsman he is not. The lads in the T-shirts proclaiming "Dempo's Stag Do" found themselves watching something disturbingly cerebral. Young Alastair does not do excess nor does he care overmuch for fripperies. Young Alastair is interested only in inoffensively gathering runs for England, lots of them. For the evening to have maintained the same mood, Dempo's Stag Do would have had to follow up with a swim, a picnic in a park and a spot of evensong. More tea, vicar? That is the superficial mood of a Cook innings. It is unerringly nice. Defensive shots are flowingly practised after every ball as if he is sweeping the air clean of impurities. He chooses his runs diligently, his pulse at a steady 68 beats per minute. His most forceful shots tend to be square on the offside, predominantly off the back foot, but even then there is nothing particularly emphatic about them. For Cook a century possesses no sense of the confrontational. At one point he even chatted amiably to Shahid Afridi, who normally prefers abuse to conversation. He bats because he likes to and presumably thinks that it is a nice sort of life when bowlers have to run in and bowl to him, on this occasion for more than 5½ hours. He constantly tidies his shirtsleeves, yanking them up slim shoulders only for them to fall down again. Dempo's Stag Do arrived buoyantly, talking of the chance to watch Kevin Pietersen. Now there is a stag-do cricketer - almost as much thrusting and posturing per over as would be found on the obligatory midnight visit to a lap-dancing club. But Pietersen failed to add to his overnight score, Imran Farhat's delight at finally clinging on to a catch, at gully, being tempered by his suffering a suspected dislocated finger in the process. Cook made no such miscalculation, prolonging his innings until well past lunch. "KP said that he wished he had my patience," said Cook, "and I said I wished I could hit it as far as he could. But I have to bat for long periods of time to make my runs. That's the way it is." That was not how it was for the previous England batsman to begin his Test career with three hundreds in his first seven Tests. That record belonged to the old roisterer himself, Ian Botham, who was altogether a more extrovert character. "He was a little bit before my time but it's nice to be up there," said Cook, making Botham, who recently celebrated his 5oth birthday, sound like a team-mate of WG Grace. England's failure to instil a sense of cricketing continuity into their young charges remains inadequate. An Australian would not have considered his place in history so lightly. Cook's previous two hundreds, against India in Nagpur and Pakistan this summer at Lord's, both resulted in draws. "It would be nice now to score a hundred in a winning Test," he said, and so he should. His only out-of-character shot was a tennis-style hook shot, way above his head, early in the day against Mohammad Sami. Only on the brink of a hundred did Cook's composure briefly desert him. He was aided by a loose over from Abdul Razzaq, 12 from it, including two offside boundaries rushing him from 85 to 97. On 98 he cut Danish Kaneria straight to point and ran but Paul Collingwood had conjured up a single before Mohammad Sami even knew the ball was in his hand. And when Cook secured his hundred there was the sense of a man already contemplating the next one. He would do well to acknowledge the applause of the crowd as well as his team-mates, though. Cook could have no better companion in these circumstances than Collingwood, who shepherded him to three figures on all three occasions. On Australia's tour of England in 2001, when Collingwood was struggling to make an impact in England's one-day side, Steve Waugh remarked that he could see something in him. What he sensed was something of himself - a batsman with an immense will to win, an arch professional. Cook's ambition is not so easily recognised. It is less abrasive, more passive and belies his gentle countenance. It arises as much from a simple wish to make runs as a burning desire to prevail, an ambition less easily spotted but none the less real for that. This was the best and most fluent of his three hundreds. His century in Nagpur, after a call-up from the West Indies A tour, was a remarkable achievement of will. At Lord's Pakistan dropped several chances. Like Collingwood and Ian Bell, Cook simply gets on with the job. 