 The last time the Ashes were contested, Mitchell Johnson couldn't get a game. Since then the 27-year-old from Queensland has become Australia's most feared bowler, taking 94 wickets in 21 Tests and helping his country to series victory in South Africa - where he also scored his first Test century.After thrashing the South Africans but then going out so early in the World Twenty20, how confident are you feeling about this Ashes series? Personally, I always get quite nervous going into the first game of a series. But beating South Africa 2-1 on their turf was a huge thing for us. Having Stuart Clark and Brett Lee back in the attack gives us a big positive and I see Philip Hughes scored a lot of runs when he arrived in England so he seemed to enjoy the conditions. When you were 17 Dennis Lillee described you as a "once in a lifetime bowler". Did it go to your head at all? I lived in North Queensland and I'd flown to Brisbane for a cricket camp when Dennis said that. I had to pack my bags and go to Adelaide to the cricket academy the very next day. That all happened really quickly and that comment was always coming up. I probably did relax a bit too much, but it doesn't faze me any more. Your team had relationship counselling before this summer's tour. What's happened to Aussie machismo? [laughs] It definitely helps me to speak to someone sometimes, whatever it's about. I generally bottle things up until I'm about to explode.  Surely a good trait for a fast bowler? Nah, I'm not a very aggressive person. I smile at the batsmen a lot. I'm not right in your face, I try to let my bowling do the talking.  As you did this winter, when you broke Graeme Smith's hand and hit Jacques Kallis in the face. What goes through your mind at times like that? You wonder how much damage has been done - you want to intimidate the batsman but you don't want to hurt someone that badly. I did feel quite bad about Graeme because he's a nice bloke off the field.  Your girlfriend is pretty tough too, a karate teacher - have you taken it up? I did some when I was younger. Jessica has talked about doing classes together but I'd be embarrassed if she was coaching me.  You're worried she'd beat you up... No, no, that's never going to happen. When you were trying to make it as a state cricketer you used to drive a truck. What was in your truck? Plumbing supplies. I'd be up from 4.30am till midday and do my deliveries then train in the afternoon. My truck was more like a ute [pick-up] and you had the toilet pipes on the top. And I didn't have an accident - [Australian-born West Indies cricketer] Brendon Nash did the job before me, and one time he didn't tie the pipes on to the roof tight enough. When he braked they came off all over the road.  You missed out on the IPL this year - are any team-mates flashing their cash? I don't think they spent enough time there to get their full amount so there's nothing too flash around. I'll see if anyone has any big watches in the dressing room ... You've got a fair bit of bling yourself, including a tongue stud - what's your most expensive piece of jewellery?  I bought a nice watch in India. I'd never been into them before, but we got a good deal through Ricky. Are you really "Australia's first emo cricketer", as Damien Fleming suggested? No! We were on a flight in India and I was listening to some heavy metal. He loves that music, so I said listen to this ... he thought it was really heavy. But no, I don't dress up in black and have long hair or eye make-up. You do have the tattoos, though. I've got one just below my neck between my shoulder blades and I've got a new one as well but I'm not going to say what that one is. Will we see it on the pitch? No, no. • The first Ashes Test starts on 8 July in Cardiff, with live and exclusive coverage on Sky Sports 