 England will learn over the next few days whether Steve Harmison is ready to resume his place in an attack so heroically thwarted by Sri Lanka's tailenders at Lord's on Monday. Harmison will aim to prove his fitness before next week's second Test at Edgbaston during Durham's county championship fixture against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge starting today. But the England coach Duncan Fletcher is making cautious noises about rushing back a player who has bowled only 10 overs - in Sunday's C&G Trophy match at Old Trafford - since his premature departure from the tour of India two months ago because of a sore right shin. "Hopefully he'll be fit for the next Test but we just have to be careful about his fitness," said Fletcher. "There is a lot of cricket ahead and if we rush him and there is a problem we're only going to have to rest him again later on. There's a good chance he'll be called up into the squad and we'll analyse him after that." If Harmison survives the trip to Nottingham, England will need to decide which member of the side that drew the first Test will make way. Unless an Edgbaston greentop persuades the selectors to go without their left-arm spinner Monty Panesar - underused at Lord's - the decision will come down to either Sajid Mahmood or Harmison's Durham team-mate Liam Plunkett, who has been rested from the Nottinghamshire game. But Fletcher had generous words for the pair, despite combined match figures of six for 305. "I thought Plunkett bowled really well after his first spell, when he was probably nervous," he said. "Mahmood showed us he had raw pace, which is what we're looking for. He reverse-swung it and gave the attack a bit of balance if players like Simon Jones aren't there." For all that, England are as desperate to harness Harmison's extra bounce as Sri Lanka are keen to avoid it. They were delighted when he was forced to miss the tour there in 2003-04 with a back strain, and the England camp feel the traditional liveliness of Edgbaston's pitch could be ripe for exploitation. But edges need to be caught and Fletcher expressed frustration that nine chances - all of them in the cordon between wicketkeeper and gully - went begging in the last three days at Lord's. "It was very disappointing but the guys didn't mean to drop the catches," he said. "You can probably afford to drop one or two catches but we got on a run with it and that cost us the Test." 