 It was a cruel end for England to a match in which cruelty had already been heaped heavily on them by the muscular power of the Australian batting, and, even more cruelly perhaps given its unexpected nature, the bowling of Mitchell Marsh. There is no disgrace in submitting to the pace and skills of the other Mitchells, Johnson and Starc, but the England batsmen coped pretty well with this challenge on a Melbourne pitch that had some spark in it. But to succumb to Marsh, a brisk medium pacer, was unacceptable. James Taylor, though, batted with the air of a fellow revelling in the demands of battling away in adversity in front of the largest crowd perhaps he will ever see. For a while, when George Bailey called off his attack dogs (and Marsh) and allowed a few gentle overs from Glenn Maxwell and even Steve Smith, they allowed Taylor to play himself in and get the pace of the pitch and the measure of the bowling. This was most unlike Australia and if – with the game long since dead – it was not meant to be patronising, or even arrogant (and it did look that way: for a while, during their partnership) then Taylor and Chris Woakes showed what can happen if you take the foot off the throttle even for a second. In the end Bailey had to call on his strike bowlers to finish things off but by then Taylor was swinging from the hip as effectively as anyone else in the match. England were outplayed in every department. The Australians, urged on by a massive partisan crowd, batted with panache, fielded brilliantly and had greater depth to their seam bowling. David Warner missed a chance from Taylor late in the match but that was the single blemish and there were some spectacularly good catches taken. England took some good ones but missed a couple too, most particularly that with which Woakes let off Aaron Finch in the first over of the match, before he had scored. It is all too simplistic to predicate this on any perceived unsettling nature of last-minute changes to the side and in the batting order, in which Gary Ballance replaced Ravi Bopara but batted at three, with Taylor, who has been in that position, moved to six. Eoin Morgan says this is Taylor’s best position and, although he bats at three for Nottinghamshire (and Ballance at five for Yorkshire), he could well be right: the fact that he has just scored an unbeaten 98 against Australia says as much. When the ball burst through Woakes’ hands, though, the deflation was evident. It is hard to be sanguine about such things and the opposition pick up all too readily on them. England had been excellent in the field in their warm-up matches. The mistake made by the umpires was unacceptable because it meant, essentially, that neither the on-field officials nor the third umpire knew the laws of the game or the playing conditions. When Taylor was hit on the pads and given out lbw, the ball from thereon was dead, irrespective of the fact that the decision was subsequently overturned. So Jimmy Anderson could not have been run out. How the umpires could not see this is a mystery. On this occasion it had no direct impact on the outcome of the match beyond, most likely, depriving Taylor of a century. But suppose it had happened in a tight game? Suppose that qualification for the quarter-finals of this group depends on a very small increment of run rate? It provided yet another tester for the match referee Jeff Crowe, the former New Zealand captain, who was the official when the 2007 World Cup final ended in farce and again when the 2011 final started as such. There was more criticism of England’s bowling in the latter part of the Australian innings, with 105 runs coming in the last 10 overs. It is undoubtedly true that the yorker, which England do not use as often as they might, is an excellent response to prodigious hitting, but only if it is delivered inch-perfect, otherwise it becomes one of the most hittable deliveries. It is neither a complete panacea nor indeed the percentage ball against a lot of players, particularly those with the bottom-hand muscle power to dig out and away even good yorkers. Beyond this, though, the art of so-called death bowling is far from a precise one. Not only do different batsmen have different hitting skills which require answers to match but the game for the bowler becomes one of skill, intuition and luck. There is a guessing game, trying to foresee what a batsman might be going to do. Yet the very restrictions that limit the number of fielders permitted outside the inner ring provide so much of a clue to the batsman as the type of delivery, they might as well wave a placard with their intentions. Set the straight fielders deep and it is obvious that the tactics are to go full, set them deep square on either side and quite clearly the intention is to bowl short. Load the offside and the bowler is not going to target leg stump. There is a chance of the occasional double bluff (Stuart Broad bowled Warner with a very full delivery the ball after moving a fielder square to cover the shot he had played the previous ball) but not often. If the boundary is long to the sides and short straight (say, in the extreme, Auckland) it makes sense to try to force the batsman to hit square. The reverse applies if it is long straight boundaries with no room to the side. The outcome can be a total matter of chance. When Lasith Malinga, the best death bowler in the business, can go for 84 wicketless runs, as he did in Christchurch, the job is a clearly tough one. In Adelaide a day later Sohail Khan and Wahab Riaz bowled splendidly to the Indian power hitters, through hitting back of a length hard, mixing pace and using the slower ball well. There really is no single way. 