 Dave Richardson, the chief executive of the International Cricket Council, has revealed Hong Kong are the team recently probed by the governing body’s anti-corruption unit but insists the upcoming World Twenty20 in India will be clean. Ronnie Flanagan, the former British police chief who heads up ACU, told reporters on Sunday that his team had recently moved to prevent a planned spot-fixing incident, with an unnamed international side under investigation. Richardson has gone on to confirm that the case in question relates to that of the Hong Kong all-rounder Irfan Ahmed, who was suspended in January and charged with failing to report an illegal approach. “In recent times you would have read in the media that a particular player was suspended from his country and the investigations relate to the same team,” Richardson said on Monday. Hong Kong get the 2016 World Twenty20 under way on Tuesday with their Group B opener against Zimbabwe in Nagpur, but Richardson insists that wrongdoing should not be assumed simply from the fact that players have been spoken to. “[Flanagan] said one of the teams was under investigation. We need to take that in perspective,” he said. “We shouldn’t speculate that it involves any match-fixing or spot-fixing with any particular players or particular team. An investigation will resolve it.” While Richardson went on to stress his belief that the World Twenty20 would be a “clean tournament”, with the ACU working closely with law enforcement agencies in India, he conceded would-be match-fixers are now targeting teams away from the top tier of the men’s game. He added: “We are now finding that the corruptors are now focused on associate members, women’s teams, etc. So we have got to make sure the players from all the teams are very well educated, understand their responsibilities and would not get involved. “Unfortunately, this is the world we are living. There are corrupt people all over the world, trying their best to get hold of players.” Hong Kong face Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Scotland in the initial qualifying round of the tournament, with the winners going through to the Super 10 stage, where they will meet England, South Africa, Sri Lanka and West Indies. Ireland, Bangladesh, Oman and Netherlands play off on the other side of the draw in Group B, with the top team join India, New Zealand, Australia and Pakistan in the second round. 