 Preamble Morning all. Richard Rae will be watching Sussex v Worcestershire, Richard Gibson will be at Durham v Hampshire and John Stern is taking in Middlesex v Northamptonshire. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Watch video highlights here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Andy Bull, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield. 10.50am: It's cloudy again, but a different sort of cloudy, writes Richard Rae in Horsham. In other words - those of umpire George Sharpe a few minutes ago, actually - we'd be unlucky to cop a shower today. Which is pleasing, because the game has been an absorbing one, the advantage having swung between Sussex and Worcestershire over the first two days. The final session yesterday, however, during which Sussex went from 210-5 to 265 all out, has given the visitors the initiative and a first innings lead of 25, little enough you'd have thought, but in fact a decent start when you're going to be bowling last on a wicket which is already turning for Moeen Ali and Saeed Ajmal. Talking of Ajmal, Worcestershire's overseas player is heading, well, overseas - he's been called up to a Pakistan training camp prior to their tour to Zimbabwe. The off-spinner will therefore be very extra keen to help his temporary county enforce what would be a rather important win, both in terms of keeping them in with a good shout of avoiding relegation, and dragging Sussex very much into the mix. He departs next week, to be replaced at New Road by WIndies quickie Kemar Roach, who in his short international career to date has taken 40 Test wickets at 29.90. 10.55am: Good morning from Lord's, writes John Stern, where it's humid and cloudy, another good day for bowling you would reckon on this the second day of Middlesex v Northamptonshire, the top two teams in Division Two. So it's the proverbial 48-pointer, as they don't say. It was Northants' day yesterday, but only just. Having put Middlesex in, they bowled poorly when the conditions were at their most helpful. After lunch, though, they refocused and led by the cunning of Chaminda Vaas, they induced a Middlesex collapse from 122 for one to 185 for six. Middlesex start the day on 198 for six. If they can get past 250 on a pitch that is now into its third day of use they will be moderately satisfied. As I wandered into the ground this morning, Angus Fraser, Middlesex's managing director cricket, was having a bowl in the nets. What a joy to behold. He's a bit bulkier than he used to be, let's say a bigger unit and I dare say he's not very quick though he looked sharp enough to this village cricketer's eyes off six paces. And every ball was - cliché alert - in the right area. Indeed it was on pretty much the same spot, on off stump, nibbling away a fraction. The few balls I watched were certainly challenging enough for the batsman, Steven Crook, Middlesex's No9. 11.28am: I arrived at Chester-le-Street this morning with greater optimism - although not quite the level of the traffic announcer on the local radio station 24 hours ago, who warned listeners of congestion around the area created by this Championship match - due to the lack of rain, writes Richard Gibson. However, the outfield is sodden and will need a fair amount of mopping. Umpires Richard Illingworth and Nick Cook were in discussions with the ground staff at 11.10am and the covers on the outer of the square are being removed as I write. With time running out in the match - we have managed only 30 overs in the opening two days - the best chance of a positive result now would be a double forfeiture of innings. Word from Durham captain Phil Mustard yesterday, however, was that this was not a course the Division One leaders would pursue. They appear to favour a quest for maximum bowling and batting points. In contrast, Hampshire, win-less and in need desperate need of victories to stay up, would no doubt prefer the dangling of a carrot 11.48am: Update from the grim north-east: inspection at midday, writes Richard Gibson. That could mean a start before lunch. Everything crossed. 12.15pm: The third day's play at Durham will begin at 1pm, following an early lunch, and the over allocation has been reduced from 96 to 83, writes Richard Gibson. The soup of the day is carrot and coriander (the chef is particularly good at soup here). 12.26pm: James Middlebrook, the Northants off-spinner, has turned (pun not intended) the morning his county's way with two wickets in 20 minutes, writes John Stern. There's a decent amount of spin for him, which does beg the question why Middlesex, who will bowl last on what will by then be a fifth-day wicket, opted for four seamers and left out their slow left-armer Tom Smith. Oh, for a Tufnell, Edmonds, Emburey or Titmus. He had Steven Crook caught at silly point by Stephen Peters (254 for eight) and earlier bowled Toby Roland-Jones, who was dropped on 20 by Rob White at third slip. Northants didn't start that well and Middlesex's seventh-wicket pair of Roland-Jones and John Simpson, the keeper, played positively and with some ease. It's hard to assess Middlesex's innings at this stage. Northants have plenty of runs in them but my sense is that if Middlesex can inch their way to 300 and beyond, that will be a decent total having been put in. But their bowling attack is missing Steven Finn, who's playing for England Lions, and he has played in all six of their championship victories this season. 1.10pm: This has turned out to be Middlesex's session without doubt, writes John Stern. They're 296 for eight at lunch, having lost two wickets for 98 on this cloudy morning. John Simpson, the young Lancastrian wicket-keeper, has shown once again why he gets preferred to the more accomplished gloveman Ben Scott, who is on loan at Worcestershire. He has batted with focus and determination for his 46 not out, while, at the other end, Tim Murtagh, the second leading wicket-taker in the country, has flayed away merrily, carving Luke Evans over point and generally enjoying himself. But on 13, he was missed when the Northants keeper Niall O'Brien and first slip Andrew Hall stood and watched as an edge off Chaminda Vaas came between them and sped off towards the pavilion boundary. A bad miss and possibly a costly one. 1.18pm: Lunchtime at Horsham finds Worcestershire on 93-2, from which those with a mathematical bent will immediately work out means they lead Sussex by 118, writes Richard Rae, who has to use a piece of paper and long addition pretty much every time. The wickets to fall were those of Daryl Mitchell, who played on to Jimmy Anyon to the fifth ball of the day, and Vikram Solanki, leg before on the back foot to what looked like an arm ball from Monty Panesar. The closer we got to lunch, the more turn and bounce Panesar found (bowling from the Church end - said church being St Mary's, where Henry Blofeld was married, apparently), and that won't displease Worcester. Saeed Ajmal has told the Worcester supporters, who have in turn told me - the sneaks - that if he's bowling on the last day with any sort of lead, Worcestershire will win this match. Game over, then. 2.31pm: An afternoon update from Richard Gibson at Chester-le-Street, where Hampshire are 130-4: Durham failed to take a wicket in the first hour of play but James Vince has since departed, retired hurt, having been troubled by what appeared to be discomfort in his right side. He has had a long-standing shoulder injury but the treatment he received during a lengthy stoppage appeared to be to an area lower down. He has had his right shoulder strapped this season, and might have aggravated the injury when he was forced to jab down on a Graham Onions yorker - will find out at tea. Sean Ervine has joined Neil McKenzie in gloomy, bowler-friendly conditions and Hampshire are 127 for three. 2.56pm: Here's the latest from John Stern at Lord's, where Northants are 19 without loss as they chase Middlesex's first-innings total of 317: So Northants are batting now at Lord's. Time will tell how good Middlesex's total of 317 is but the gut feeling is that it's very competitive, given that they were put in yesterday morning. Chaminda Vaas picked up his second Lord's five-for but his first as a visiting player, his previous one coming in 2007 when he played for Middlesex. The last two were both lbw, with the second new ball, and deserved reward for his worldly wisdom and canny control. John Simpson made 61 and brought him Middlesex's third batting bonus point with the first ball after lunch, an imperious back-foot cover-drive off Lee Daggett. The shot also took him to 50. The Northants openers, Stephen Peters and Mal Loye, are getting a good work-out in the first few overs from Tim Murtagh, swinging it both ways, and Corey Collymore, who received his county cap along with Chris Rogers at lunch time. This is a very testing spell for the batters. 3.52pm: An early tea - taken seven minutes early to be exact, due to bad light - at Chester-le-Street, where Hampshire are 183 for five, writes Richard Gibson. Neil McKenzie extended his fine recent form with 90 before nicking a beauty from Chris Rushworth. His most productive area was behind square on the legside, with the fine leg boundary taking a particular peppering. Prior to departing, during the ninth over of Rushworth's impressive spell, he lost James Vince (retired hurt) and Sean Ervine, run out by Mark Stoneman's direct hit from cover. But Dimitri Mascarenhas has played positively to dominate an unbeaten sixth-wicket stand of 40 with young wicketkeeper Michael Bates. 4.10pm: The absorbing match between Sussex and Worcestershire at Horsham has moved on apace in the afternoon session, reports Richard Rae. Monty Panesar has wheeled away unchanged from the Church End, hereinafter known as the Blowers End, and at times has been almost unplayable, certainly by left-handers when he finds the footmarks. Matt Pardoe, having battled through the morning session, could make nothing of Panesar, and it was a desperate shot that was very nearly dropped by Will Adkin at mid-on. Alex Kervesee, still on nought,cut the otherwise disappointing Wayne Parnell to extra cover, where Luke Wells took a good diving catch, and Aneesh Kapil was dropped by Joe Gatting first ball, as simple a chance as you're going to get at backward point. Kapil then played really well in going to 19 before a Kirk Werners delivery stopped on him as he attempted to turn him into the leg side, and just before tea, Gareth Andrew played back to Luke Wells and edged the occasional off-spinner to Michael Yardy at slip to leave Worcestershire on 188-6, a lead of 213. The constant for Worcestershire has been Moeen Ali, who despite at times looking in terrible trouble against Panesar, has grafted his way to his second half-century of the match. Yardy will have been pleased with his catch, but the Sussex captain could surely be accused of missing a trick in not bowling Wells much earlier. With Saeed Ajmal and Moeen in their ranks, it may be Worcestershire already have enough. Another 40 or so, and they'll be the strong favourites. 4.15pm: Northants 78-0 at tea, in reply to Middlesex's 317. The Northants openers have got through an extremely tricky session here against Middlesex's highly effective seam attack, albeit one missing Steven Finn, writes John Stern. The new ball has been swinging for all four of the bowlers and passing the bat plenty. It is astonishing that they have got to tea unscathed. Stephen Peters, Northants' leading run scorer this season and last, has looked more at much more at home than his partner Mal Loye, the veteran in the final year of his contract whose century against the Indians on Saturday was comfortably his highest score of a sub-standard season. Peter was dropped on 38 by Chris Rogers at square leg, diving to his left, off Steven Crook who was bowling superbly at Peters, swinging the ball late past the outside edge and then inducing rash get-out-of-jail shots. Both Crook and Rogers used to play for Northants so they were doubly annoyed at the let-off. 'These colours don't run,' used to be a nauseating refrain from football hoolies years ago but I'm disturbed to report that Middlesex's colours clearly do run. In their last home championship match against Derbyshire I noticed that Rogers, the Aussie batsman, had had a washing-machine malfunction, causing his white shirt to be going a bit Man City where the navy neckline had bled. I spoke to Rogers about this the other evening and he said he had put his shirt in a "hot wash" which seemed a bit naÔve. Decline in Aussies standards and all that. But other players' shirts too seem to have suffered the same fate including Tim Murtagh, their leading wicket-taker, and John Simpson, the keeper. Wouldn't have happened in Gatt's day. 4.34pm: My hunch about Vince's injury proved correct in that it was not a recurrence of his shoulder problem, writes Richard Gibson. Back spasms seem to be infectious up here. Exactly a week ago Paul Collingwood suffered one, and the Hampshire physio, Craig de Weymarn, says that is what forced Vince from the field after little more than an hour's batting today. Thought a back spasm was an old man's injury, I must say. Vince is only 20. He will only bat in an emergency, added de Weymarn, and not sure there will be one with Hampshire 206 for five. 5.18pm: More bad light at Chester-le-Street halts a match that is still in its first innings in the final session of day three, writes Richard Gibson. Hampshire are 230 for six, having so far negotiated three overs of the second new ball unscathed. Mascarenhas fell for an even 50 five minutes before it was taken, unhinged by a Mich Claydon delivery that left him off the pitch. 