 Cricket is the most nostalgic of all games and since Brendon McCullum left the field clutching his left elbow after being struck by Stuart Broad the more senior members of the press box have been remembering Colin Cowdrey. Now, I don't know whether you have over-dosed on Anno Domini but even if you are young you will have heard of Colin Cowdrey, who was captain of England and went on to become a knight and then a Lord and one of the most famous men in English cricket.  He had a long career, for both Kent and England, but the enduring image is of him making his way to the crease at Lord's in 1963 with his arm in plaster after it had been broken earlier in the match. In the end he didn't have to face a ball - just as well because Wes Hall and Charlie Griffith were a little over medium pace to put it very mildly - and England clung on for a draw. There was no such drama here because McCullum, who went to hospital for an X-ray, did not break his arm and he even managed a knock-up during the tea interval with a view to resuming his innings before New Zealand saw out the draw. But the final day was interesting enough as England have attempted to force an unlikely victory. New Zealand resumed the fifth day on 40 without loss, just two runs behind, and England were looking to bowl them out by tea to have a realistic chance of winning a game that at one time appeared wrecked by rain and bad light. Wickets fell throughout the day, enough to convince England that they were in with an outside chance of victory. But then they missed a couple of chances, which might have made all the difference. By tea, at 199 for four with a lead of 157, the Kiwis were safe and shortly after 5pm, bad light intervened and the game was declared a draw. A century by Jacob Oram came to New Zealand's rescue. Oram is a fine striker of the ball but it was surprising that England's faster bowlers did not give him some more of the shorter stuff, which he obviously doesn't like. In the end, Ryan Sidebottom forced one to swing in between his bat and pad, catching half forward, half back. As England's chances of victory ended, discussion around the ground moved to Old Trafford, where the second Test starts on Friday. As the England selectors named a 12 for the first two Tests there won't be many changes but we are expecting another fast bowler to be picked today to take the place of the injured Matthew Hoggard, who was the man left out of the Lord's 12.  With extra bounce expected at Old Trafford there is even talk about Steve Harmison. But I don't think he's done enough yet. I'd like to see Harmison, like Andrew Flintoff, back in time to face the South Africans later in the summer. But before then there is much work to do. 