 On Saturday, Charlotte Edwards hit an unbeaten 72 from 61 balls to help England Women beat Ireland by 51 runs in their first international of a summer that sees them play a further 15 limited-overs internationals in both formats, against India first of all, beginning with a T20 at Canterbury on Tuesday, next Pakistan, and finally West Indies. The win represents a continuation of a remarkable run of success in both T20 and ODIs that goes back almost a year, to Lord's when Australia beat them by seven wickets. Since then, there have been seven successive wins in ODIs and the same number in T20, a run in the latter format which now extends to 11 matches. That, in a game that globally is rapidly increasing in standard, is just outstanding. The quality of cricketers within the England environment has and continues to improve with the investment of the ECB. Years ago, they stole a march over other nations, who, stung by it, have now started stronger investment programmes themselves and are seeing the dividends from it. The competition is hardening all the time. In recognising this, the response of the ECB has been to double its investment and general commitment. While England Women have yet to become full time professionals in the sense of central contracts, there are now opportunities, provided by organisations such as Chance To Shine, who employ the coaching and public relations skills of the players to great effect. From it comes a squad of players who are superbly coached and resourced to a level that is envied elsewhere, technically excellent, brilliantly led not least by example, fit, professional in outlook, and in no small part responsible, as role models, for the rapid rise in profile that makes womens' and girls' cricket the fastest growing participation sport in the country and one of the most rapidly expanding in the world. The persistent tendency to belittle women's cricket in comparison to men's is just irksome, in a way that tends not to happen in individual sports. This week, the fact that Maria Sharapova in all probability would not take a game, or scarcely a point for that matter, from Rafa Nadal will not diminish her. We laud Beccy Adlington, Victoria Pendleton, Katherine Grainger and Anna Watkins, and Jessica Ennis and quite right too. Jo Pavey's 5000m win in Birmingham on Sunday was as entertaining as anything in the Olympic trials meeting. All performance should be relative and appreciated as such, otherwise there would be no weight divisions in boxing. England women cricketers possess superb skills and high aesthetics, and have only physical constraints. But they still bat with flair, hit sixes, swing the ball, spin it, and field with athletic brilliance. Within their successful team context, there are outstanding individuals. In Edwards, the most capped female one-day cricketer of them all, former ICC player of the year and England player of the past year, Lydia Greenway, who was England player of the year for 2010-11, and Sarah Taylor, they possess three of the top five ranked one-day batters (a term to avoid cumbersome PC alternatives), a list topped by the West Indies star Stefanie Taylor. They also have three bowlers – Kathy Brunt, Laura Marsh and Jenny Gunn– her action now cleared once more – in the top ten. And in Sarah Taylor they have a young wicketkeeper of such skill that it is certainly a contention here that as arguably the only female cricketer who could make a success in mens first-class cricket, she is at the same time the best woman cricketer of all time. For this forthcoming series, England will be without Anya Shrubsole whose bowling impressed during the winter but who is injured, but will welcome back Brunt, the opening bowler, ranked third in the world, who is capable of delivering in the upper 70s mph, by no means a slouch, and Holly Colvin who missed the winter tours of South Africa and New Zealand because of university commitments. Against them they will find a competent Indian side that contains world-class players in Jhulan Goswami, ranked one place below Brunt in the bowling, and Mithali Raj, who is second to Stefanie Taylor in the batting rankings. Beyond the first T20 and one which follows at Chelmsford on Thursday, there follows a five match ODI series, with games at Lord's on Sunday, followed by a brace at Taunton, one in Truro (they are nothing if not evangelical) and finally at Wormsley, the delightful quintessentially English pastoral ground in the middle of the Getty Estate. 