 Preamble Morning all. Mike Selvey is at Edgbaston for Warwickshire v Yorkshire, Richard Gibson is watching Worcestershire v Lancashire at New Road, and Richard Latham is at Taunton for Somerset v Hampshire. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Watch video highlights here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  11.16am: Glorious sunshine at New Road, where Championship leaders Lancashire will hope for early wickets to restrict Worcestershire's first-innings advantage, writes Richard Gibson. They begin 48 runs in arrears, and without opening batsman and expectant father Stephen Moore, who rushed off from the ground just after 9am this morning to be with wife Ruth after she went into labour. This is the third occasion I have been at matches when players have departed to either be at the birth or meet their new-born child while play continues. The then England captain Michael Vaughan temporarily quit the Headingley Test against New Zealand in 2004 and hared down the M1 for the arrival of his first child Tallulah while Matthew Hoggard left the Lord's Test versus West Indies four years ago following the birth of son Ernie. 11.18am: The sun is out, writes Mike Selvey at Edgbaston. It would be stretching a point to say from the pressbox eyrie Birmingham centre gleams like the celestial city, but at least it is a bit more like cricket weather than yesterday's cold, overcast day. Yorkshire exceeded themselves in reaching 258 for eight overnight and will retain hope that the ball continues to move around for their seamers as it has done for Warwickshire's. Whether the lack of cloud cover makes a difference remains to be seen, but for now Warwickshire have to get past the steadfast Ryan Sidebottom, who began the day by standing tall and belting Chris Wright majestically on the up through extra cover, and Steve Patterson. 11.28am: Good morning from a gloriously sunny Taunton where Somerset's bowlers look to have a big job on in preventing Hampshire building a sizeable first innings lead, writes Richard Latham. The visitors resumed on 124 for one under virtually cloudless skies, with Jimmy Adams and Michael Carberry both past the half-century mark and looking to build. Jos Buttler is behind the stumps for Somerset having returned from what turned out to be a fielding only role in England Twenty20 win over India at Old Trafford last night. So substitute Steve Snell, who impressed with his keeping both yesterday and against Essex in the CB40 on Monday, will be seen no more. Steve Kirby has just had a hugely confident appeal against Adams for a catch behind rejected by umpire Martin Saggers, an action replay of an incident yesterday evening. Hampshire 130 for one and a grumpy Kirby prowling around at mid-on like a caged tiger as Alfonso Thomas bowls from the River End. 12.25pm: No breakthrough in the first 75 minutes for Somerset, although both Adams and Carberry have ridden their luck, playing and missing on numerous occasions, writes Richard Latham at Taunton. In a desperate bid for a change of fortune Thomas has just switched the bails over at the bowler's end and is now trusting in superstition to end a partnership currently worth 182. Steve Kirby and Charl Willoughby have also faced the frustration of not quite finding an edge and it appears the ball is still swinging despite being 57 overs old. Somerset's hopes of a first ever Championship title could be disappearing before our eyes as Hampshire are now just 21 behind with nine wickets in hand. Murali Kartik has been introduced from the River End, but found no more sympathy from the umpires than his predecessors when appealing confidently for leg-before as Carberry tried a reverse sweep. 12.48pm: Mark Chilton has reverted to opener in the absence of former Worcestershire batsman Moore, writes Richard Gibson at New Road. Let's hope it's not a long labour if Lancashire's first innings is anything to go by. The leaders have negotiated the first five overs, progressing to 10 without loss, after relegation-threatened Worcestershire gained a 76-run advantage on first innings. James Cameron was one of three morning victims for Glen Chapple, agonisingly two shy of only a second first-class hundred when one kept low to crash into middle and off-stumps. Kyle Hogg claimed the first of the quartet to go down inside 11 overs when Ben Scott nicked a wide half-volley. 1.17pm: The new ball did its early damage to the Warwickshire innings, but by lunch Ian Westwood and the batting crab that is Shiv Chanderpaul were rectifying things so that they will resume at for two in response to Yorkshire's 281, writes Mike Selvey at Edgbaston. So a decent match is in prospectThere is still plenty of help from the pitch for the seamer prepared to bend his back although the swing of the first day has disappeared along with the cloud cover. First blood was drawn by Ajmal Shahzad, off target generally, who induced a routine edge from Varun Chopra, pushing gently forward, which was taken by Jonny Bairstow. One run later and the left handed William Porterfield was taken at second slip off Ryan Sidebottom, galumphing in from the City end and still causing tea cups to rattle as he lands.This sort of situation is tailor-made for Chanderpaul though, a batsman capable of the extremes of remarkable aggression and mind-numbing passivity. He it is who holds the record for the longest time spent at the Test match crease without dismissal, and Yorkshire know that with such powers of concentration, it is they who will have to dig him out rather than him give up the ghost.Yorkshire added a further 27 to their overnight 254 for eight in 35 minutes first thing, both wickets falling to Rikki Clarke, who finished with 4 for 55. Chris Metters, who did not bowl today, managed 3 for 47. 1.28pm: Lunch at Taunton where it has been a wicketless morning for Somerset and one of celebration for Carberry and Adams, whose second wicket partnership is now worth 225, writes Richard Latham. Better still for the Hampshire pair, they have both completed centuries, Carberry's coming off 189 balls, with 20 fours and Adams' off 212 deliveries with 16 boundaries. Adams reached three figures in the final over before the interval to complete a perfect session for the visitors. Somerset have tried everything to part them, but are already looking at a deficit of 22 on first innings. With the skies still clear, the home bowlers will be hoping for better luck with the second new ball, available in nine overs time. Unless they use it well, Hampshire could be out of sight by tea. 1.45pm: Lancashire are in a spot of bother at lunch on the second day thanks to Alan Richardson's fine opening spell of 7-4-8-3, writes Richard Gibson at New Road. Stand-in opener Mark Chilton was lbw in a carbon copy of his first innings dismissal, Paul Horton was forced to play at one that left him and Karl Brown departed following a leaden-footed drive.The current Division One leaders are therefore 39 runs behind and effectively four down with Moore back in Manchester. Whether or not he can play a part in this innings will depend on some sterner resistance from his team-mates in the afternoon session. 2.55pm: Absolute carnage after lunch at New Road, writes Richard Gibson. Lancashire are on the brink of a defeat that would throw the County Championship title race wide open. Alan Richardson has doubled his morning tally this morning, his figures of six for 22 making him the top flight's joint-leading wicket-taker alongside Andre Adams on 62. Only some ferocious blows from Kyle Hogg averted an innings defeat for Lancashire but when he became Kemar Roach's third victim - his middle stump cartwheeling spectacularly - Lancashire, without dad-to-be Stephen Moore, were only four runs ahead. 3.06pm: Adams has just clipped Craig Meschede through mid-wicket for four to bring up a triple century partnership with Carberry, which not surprisingly is a second wicket record in matches between Hampshire and Somerset, writes Richard Latham at Taunton. Now Hampshire's record second wicket stand against any opposition is in sight - 321 by George Brown and Edward Barrett against Gloucestershire at Southampton in 1920. If Somerset's bowlers were unlucky this morning the same cannot be said for the period since lunch. Both Adams and Carberry have looked relatively untroubled and there are signs of heads dropping in the field as the sun beats down. The new ball was taken at 262 for one, but the only difference has been that it has sped to the boundary quicker than the old one. Even news of Lancashire's demise at New Road cannot cheer the Taunton faithful, for whom a late summer tan is no compensation for seeing that Championship pennant flutter out of sight for yet another year. Both batsmen are closing in on their 150s and, at 314 for one, Hampshire have a lead of 110. 3.10pm: "Lancashire's total of 80 was their lowest in the Championship since 1997, and left Worcestershire with a victory target of five in a minimum of 239 overs, writes Richard Gibson. They took just three balls as it happened - Daryl Mitchell cut Tom Smith's second ball for four and a leg bye sealed a truly woeful match for the leaders. It will be interesting to get Peter Moores' take on it all. 4.01pm: Tea at Taunton and not too much to smile about for either set of supporters, writes Richard Latham. Somerset's have almost lost the will to live as their bowlers continue to toil unsuccessfully to part Carberry and Adams, whose stand has now reached 372, comfortably a Hampshire record for the second wicket. Followers of the visitors might be in a happier frame of mind, were in not for the fact that Worcestershire's massacre of Lancashire at New Road has Hampshire teetering on the brink of the trap door into the Championship Second Division. At least the two batsmen can enjoy their cuppa. Carberry lofted Arul Suppiah over long-on for six in the final over before the interval to move onto 182, while Adams is on 173. They came together at the fall of Liam Dawson's wicket yesterday with only one run on the board and have now taken the total to 373 for one following an afternoon session in which neither looked remotely in danger of getting out. Somerset have tried plans A,B,C and D and now need one of Baldrick-like cunning to find a way back into the match. They have only six overs in which to get two wickets and claim a single bowling point, while Hampshire require 27 runs in the same period for maximum batting points. 