 The chief executive of Cricket Australia has laughed off the possibility of legal action being taken against the organisation for projecting pictures of Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke on to Big Ben, insisting the incident was no more than "a little bit of friendly banter", and that it had been an act of revenge after similar images in support of England were projected on to Sydney Harbour Bridge four years ago. The images, accompanied by the message "Don't forget to pack the urn", was beamed on to Big Ben on Wednesday evening. As revealed in Digger this morning, Westminster city council is considering taking action against the Australians for the stunt, with its deputy leader, Councillor Robert Davis, saying it was "both inappropriate and insulting for this important location and its buildings to effectively be abused in this manner". But speaking to the Guardian this morning James Sutherland, Cricket Australia's chief executive, said the incident had been inspired by two similar stunts in his own country. Four years ago, the last time England toured Australia, Sky Sports were responsible for projecting pictures of Monty Panesar and Andrew Flintoff on to the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Then, while Australia were contesting the Ashes in England last year, Richard Branson projected an image of himself, face painted with the St George's Cross, on to the same landmark. "I haven't heard about the threat of legal action but I did know about the activity that was going on," Sutherland said. "My perspective on it was a little bit of friendly banter between Australia and England. It's a reciprocating what happened a couple of years ago when England shone something on to the Sydney Harbour Bridge. It's just harmless fun and I hope nobody takes it too seriously." In a statement released on Cricket Australia's website last night, their captain, Ricky Ponting, said: "Winning the urn back from our age-old rival is the most prized achievement for Australians and we just wanted to send them a reminder not to leave the urn behind. Our message is clear – we're prepared and we're ready so bring on the Ashes." But Davis said that Westminster council is worried that unless it takes action similar stunts are likely to take place in the run-up to the 2012 Olympics. "We fear without taking a firm stance this style of guerrilla advertising will only increase," he said. Cricket Australia are, however, unlikely to be too concerned at the prospect of a potential £2,500 fine. 