 The newspapers in Kerala, published both in Malayalam and English, devoted most of Wednesday's sports pages to Euro 2008. Tucked away in a corner was a small three-paragraph story about Sreesanth, the local hero who will now miss the Asia Cup with an oblique muscle strain. A few might have given it a moment's thought before going on to more important matters, like Spain's made-in-heaven forward line and Luca Toni being an Emile Heskey impersonator. Last Saturday, an uncle who defines the phrase "sports tragic" called me at night from a hill station where he had gone to spend some quiet time with his family. "What's the score?" he asked. When I told him that India needed 57 from 30 balls with only MS Dhoni left, he interrupted me to say: "I meant the Spain v Sweden game." The fact that India were losing a tournament final to Pakistan hardly seemed to register. My mind went back to March 2004 and India's first tour of Pakistan in a generation. The first one-day international at Karachi, one of the great matches played in the much maligned genre, paralysed Saturday afternoon life in most parts of the subcontinent, and the feeling of collective catharsis as India held on despite Inzamam-ul-Haq's glorious innings was comparable to the mood in England after David Beckham's penalty had put away those Argentine bogeymen in the far east two years previously. The only difference was that the Indian anguish went back much further. On the surface, it dated back to a Javed Miandad six over midwicket that spawned a cottage industry in videos and DVDs, but bubbling beneath the surface was the reality of four wars, countless other misadventures and decades of mutual suspicion. On the cricket field though, the intensity is no longer what it was. Most of the players on both sides get along, and the antipathy on show is mostly of the pantomime variety, for the benefit of the TV cameras. In a sense, it's a group of men trying to reprise a past that no longer has much relevance. It's a bit like the north London football rivalry. It may matter for Spurs fans, who have enjoyed only minor successes in the past two decades, but I'd wager that most Arsenal fans are now far more concerned with what goes on in that Moscow precinct called Stamford Bridge and up north at the Theatre of Dreams. Before Saturday's final, which Pakistan eventually won by 25 runs, you got that same feeling. Even the Pakistani commentators on TV kept droning on about how much better the Indian squad was, basing their observations both on a 140-run victory earlier in the week and the evidence of the past few months, when Pakistan's only serious cricket, surely an oxymoron this case, had come against Bangladesh and Zimbabwe. India, by contrast, had seen off Pakistan in both forms of the game before journeying to Australia for a tour that was as captivating as it was controversial. Narrowly bested in the Tests, they had taken the one-day title with a game to spare, prompting further talk of a sustained challenge to Australian dominance. That was put into perspective somewhat by the South Africans, who outplayed India for vast tracts of a drawn series. There had barely been time to draw breath before the country's cricket fans were caught in the IPL maelstrom. It may not have been the purists' cup of chai, but the general public consumed it as eagerly as heartbroken Scottish fans had the beer in Bordeaux on the night when their World Cup dreams were ended in 1998. For the casual fan, the tournament was a revelation. Where else could you see players of such quality grouped together, outside the World Cup? Where else could you watch Shane Warne reprise his halcyon years and Shaun Marsh stake a claim for future greatness? Even if it was a 20-over thrash, the quality on show made it compulsive viewing. The TV ratings bore that out. The figures for Saturday's India v Pakistan final were well below those for most IPL games, and didn't come close to matching the audience for the final between the Rajasthan Royals and the Chennai Super Kings. And in these uber-commercial times, the ultimate clincher was the fact that the 10-second advertising slots on TV sold for much less. To what do you attribute the decline in interest? Overkill is surely one factor. Since 2004, India and Pakistan have played each other in 12 Tests and 29 ODIs, and India will cross the border again early in 2009. Before that, there's the Asia Cup later this month and the Champions Trophy, where the two are in the same group as Australia. The second reality is probably of more significance to sports fans. Strip away the political layers, and there never really has been much of a rivalry. In the early days, fear of defeat inspired snooze-fests, and when cricketing ties resumed after a 17-year hiatus in 1978, India simply weren't very good. Except for the odd blip, that trend continued to the 1990s. Pakistan were like the team based at Highbury, a superb side capable of beating the very best, as the West Indians of that era would testify. The matches between the two, especially those played in Sharjah, became a ritual humiliation for most India fans. The head-to-head figures became so skewed in Pakistan's favour that talk of rivalry was almost as laughable as the thought of Spurs lording it over Arsenal. Things are very different now. Pakistan haven't beaten Australia in well over a decade, while India have gone toe-to-toe with the best on every occasion except for a disastrous tour in 1999-2000. Compared to the jingoistic fervour that accompanied the series in Australia, the mood around the Pakistan games last year was almost muted. Many Indians have moved on. With the mantra being globalisation, they'd rather pit their wits against the best, Australia, than waste too much emotional energy on the parochial. Even the popular culture reflects that. While India were in Australia, a movie crew was shooting Victory, a Roy of the Rovers-style tale featuring a village boy. The climax doesn't feature Pakistan. The forces of evil are instead attired in Australian green-and-gold. The same holds true for The Zoya Factor, a novel to be released next month. Written by an advertising executive, it marries chick lit to cricket fantasy and the denouement again features the inheritors of the Crocodile Dundee legacy rather than the scions of Imran Khan. Three years ago, as I left the stadium in Kanpur, a Neanderthal owing allegiance to the Bajrang Dal or one of those loony far-right organisations came up to me and asked: "Sharam nahin aati [Don't you have any shame]?" My crime had been to stand up and applaud Shahid Afridi's breathtaking 45-ball century. For all the gripping matches, last-ball sixes and heroes on both sides, you can't overlook the fact that, like the Old Firm derby in Glasgow, these are matches that bring out the worst in people. And if the hate-mongers are slowly becoming an irrelevance, then so be it. 