 England won the third Test by eight wickets shortly before four o’clock in front of a raucous, rollicking sunlit Edgbaston crowd. Required to make 121 to take a lead in a series that has lurched from one extreme to the other and now back again, an unbroken third-wicket stand of 73 between Ian Bell and Joe Root saw them home, a job professionally and confidently done. For Bell, whose 65 was his second half-century of a match played in some tricky conditions, it was a timely response to those who might have doubted his capacity to fill the No3 role, and for the second time he took the game by the scruff after the early loss of a wicket. Root it was who leg-glanced the winning boundary and punched the air in celebration. His unbeaten 38 began with an authoritative first-ball clump to the point boundary and was the measured innings of one of the best young batsmen in the world. The teams now move to Trent Bridge, another happy hunting ground for England, who lead 2-1, as the chanting occupants of the Hollies Stand were only too happy to remind the Australians. Michael Clarke’s team can take some solace in the fact that England’s record since the first Test in Antigua back in April, has been a see-saw sequence of WLWLWLW with the obvious sequential implication: and also in the fact that they do not need to win the series to retain the Ashes, although that is just as well because only in the 1936-37 series in Australia has a team, that of Don Bradman, overcome such a deficit as there now exists to win the series. The Australia captain must now put on a brave face, but he will receive a pasting from his own media. As it stands, no Australian has overseen more losing Test matches away from home than the dozen for which Clarke has been in charge, and his batting is now so sketchy that there are sure to be calls for his removal not just as captain but as a player. There has to be continuing doubt about his fitness too, and he left the field for a while on the final afternoon before returning to stand at mid-off rather than second slip for the remainder of the match. Earlier, after Alastair Cook had been castled by Mitchell Starc – a surprise delivery to the England captain that for once did not probe the outer reaches of the return crease – it was Clarke, in the slips then, who was sluggish moving to a chance given by Bell, then 20, and it went to ground. There was no need to articulate the phrase which sprang to a thousand minds. England will have to make at least one change to a winning team for Nottingham. The side strain suffered by Jimmy Anderson has definitely ruled him out of that match although by no means from the final Test at the Kia Oval. So there will be at least a pace bowling option required. The nearest like-for-like replacement, if that is the way England feel they must go on a ground that has been Klondike country for Anderson, would probably be Chris Woakes who is back playing for Warwickshire after a long spell out with injury. But Mark Wood, who missed this match because of a slight injury himself, has bowled well on that ground too, has brought a welcome ebullience to the England squad and, refreshed again, would not let England down. It might also give a vision of a post-Anderson future, with Steven Finn rejuvenated, finishing the second Australia innings with six for 79, his best Test match figures, and eight for 117 in the game. In a difficult game to call, given Anderson’s first innings mastery, Bell’s double contribution, and David Warner’s lone virile resistance that staved off a probable defeat in two days, Finn was a worthy man of the match. The issue of Cook’s opening partner has yet to be resolved satisfactorily, with Adam Lyth failing to make runs again, this time lbw to the first ball he received from Josh Hazlewood: he now has 72 runs from six innings. It has been a fiery baptism for him, and the folly of not bedding him in during the Caribbean tour is evident. But he does “nick off” too often for a quality international opener. The team like his attitude and he may get one last chance largely because there is no obvious alternative making waves in the shires. The name of the Durham left-hander Mark Stoneman has been mentioned, and he has made two first-class hundreds and one in a List A match at Taunton in his last innings, but any replacement has to be seen as a definite improvement rather than a change for the sake of it. Clarke and his team now have an extra two days to enjoy the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery before heading to Nottingham. It is unlikely though that Darren Lehmann, a coach who is himself under the pump a little, will allow them any respite, for his charges have been largely dismal with the bat – clueless, some of them, against the moving ball – and incompetent with the ball given the helpful conditions generally harnessed by the England attack. The chances are that they will encounter much of the same at Trent Bridge so there is plenty of food for thought. In batting terms they have few options, short of the introduction of Mitchell Marsh’s brother Shaun, or the resurrection of Shane Watson’s front pad (now that Anderson is out of the immediate equation). But if the batting has been so glaringly and obviously inept at times, the bowling should be held to account, and with it perhaps the selectors who chose the attack. For Trent Bridge they need to find bowlers who can harness the conditions, as Ryan Harris would certainly have done. Peter Siddle, who could have done an excellent job here, and has spent time with Nottinghamshire in the past, has to be a consideration instead of Starc, who for some obscure reason cannot gain control of a ball that, with the exception of its colour, is essentially the same as that with which he excels. Hopes that England had of finishing off the Australia innings quickly when play resumed in the morning were dashed by some defiant lower-order batting that shamed those higher up. Perhaps England, deprived of Anderson, tried a little too hard to force the issue. Both Peter Nevill and Starc were able to complete battling half-centuries and shared an eighth-wicket stand of 64, broken only when Nevill was spectacularly caught down the leg side off Finn, a mode of dismissal he had flagged up twice before when Jos Buttler had dropped him on the second evening, and again in the morning when Buttler took the catch but – with no England reviews left – it was turned down and he stayed. Sales of “Nevill is a Shit Bloke” T-shirts are set to rocket. 