 IMRAN KHAN fulfilled a dream yesterday. At 10.30pm eastern time the Pakistan captain - his face creased with pure pleasure - mounted a rostrum in the middle of the ground to receive the World Cup from Sir Colin Cowdrey in front of the largest crowd assembled for a one-day game in Australia. Under the glare of floodlights the Waterford Crystal trophy - not a cup but a globe - flashed and sparkled for 87,000 people. It was made of glass but for Imran it was pure gold. Five time zones away the celebrations began in Lahore, where the foundations of the cancer hospital he is building are laid. It commemorates his mother and is his life's work now. Cricket's high profile keeps him in the game to help raise the pounds 14.6 million he needs. Now it might come in one tremendous, euphoric surge. The moment of moments - the most satisfying of his cricket life - had come a quarter of an hour earlier when England's final batsman, Richard Illingworth, slogged desperately at the second ball of the final over of the match and was bowled by Imran himself. The ball screwed off the bat and spiralled towards deepish mid-off. Imran turned and watched as Rameez Raja safely pouched the catch before setting off on a victory run. Pandemonium broke out. The players fell to their knees in prayer before embracing each other. The team reserves and Intikhab, the manager, ran from the dressing room. No one could recall the former Surrey leg-spinner sprinting once throughout his illustrious career but, bald head gleaming, he found the energy to charge out yesterday. In the stands green and white flags were waving. The 22-run victory did not flatter Pakistan and there can be no excuses for England. Certainly none were offered by Graham Gooch. The team had all but climbed the mountain only to stumble and fall when approaching the summit. They were beaten by a superior team on the day who finally played to their enormous potential. Pakistan played as a unit fresh with vigour England looked drained and devoid of energy. It has been a long tour with many good points, but this was a match too far. After the presentation and the laps of honour Imran sat down to the press conference. He wore a T-shirt with a prowling tiger picked out in gold thread. It has been the touchstone of the team's success. In Brisbane a little more than a fortnight ago his team had fallen foul of the rain rule and lost a game they were winning to South Africa. 'Morale was rock bottom,' he said. 'I simply told them to be just like a cornered tiger with nowhere to go. Just go out and fight.' He neglected to mention stiffening the sinews, summoning up the blood and crying God for Harry, but his words had the same effect. It was, said Imran, the turning point. Rarely can they have played better, more complete cricket. England never came to terms with the match once Pakistan had won the toss and made 249 for six from their 50 overs. Only during the early stages, when Pakistan lost both openers during Derek Pringle's excellent spell, did England enjoy any measure of superiority. But that was traded as Javed and Imran, batting at No. 3 to blunt the new-ball attack and leave the way clear for later stroke-makers, kept their wickets intact. Both were painstaking at first but more expansive later. They added 139 for the third wicket in 31 overs and set up the perfect platform. Imran made 72, the top score of the match, and Javed 58. There followed another remarkable innings from Inzamam-ul-Haq, who topped his 37-ball 60 in the Auckland semi-final with 42 from 35 balls here. His first 23 came in 10 deliveries. There was also a vicious assault from the Man of the Match Wasim Akram, who plastered the tiring England bowling for 33 runs as the fielding, already laboured, finally looked its age. A target of 250 was only possible if, like Pakistan, wickets were kept in hand for the final charge. It did not quite work that way. Botham (0) and Stewart (7) departed inside eight overs by the 21st Hick and Gooch were also gone, both falling to the leg spin of Mushtaq Ahmed. 'We were on the verge of sending him home, he had bowled so badly at the start of the tour,' said Imran. Apparently he is not even selected for the bank where he works. But he has been a tormentor in this competition and the googly which suckered Hick was a joy to watch, even if it had been widely tipped. The only stand of any substance came from Fairbrother and Lamb. The latter's experience won him selection over the fit-again Robin Smith in what Gooch described as the hardest decision of his career. Perhaps he need never have made it, because though Reeve is a worthy player it seems extraordinary that he should have been chosen ahead of Smith since his bowling played little part in the strategy. Fairbrother and Lamb added 72 from 84 balls for the fifth wicket and may have been hauling the game round when Imran played his trump card by introducing Wasim for the 35th over. By its completion Imran knew England were beaten. The fifth ball, delivered from round the wicket at considerable pace, homed in towards Lamb's middle stump, swung away, moved further on pitching and clipped the off stump: probably the ball of the tournament. By way of variation the next ball to Lewis swung insidiously through the batsman's late lunge to trim the bails. So 141 for four and hope for England, became 141 for six and the game gone. Fairbrother again battled bravely for his 70-ball 62 before top-edging an attempted pull. Mushtaq saw off Reeve, and DeFreitas was run out, but by then desperation had long since superseded common sense and caution. England and Gooch have now finished second in three World Cup finals. 'It's not a record that will be bettered,' said the captain drily. He looked drained, but spoke of his pride in his team and what they have achieved over the past few months. 'We gave it our best and it wasn't good enough on the day. It's not the end of the world .' Then he thought again. 'It's pretty close to it though.' 