 This time last year, Matthew Hoggard was warming up for a rant about Yorkshire's decision not to offer him a new contract. Life has rarely been dull for the 2005 Ashes hero since, although when he accepted the invitation to captain Leicestershire he cannot have envisaged finding himself at the centre of an increasingly bitter battle between the coach, Tim Boon, the chief executive, David Smith, and the chairman, Neil Davidson, – all of whom have now left the club. Phlegmatic character that he is, Hoggard would presumably be rueful rather than bitter about the contrast between the problems he has encountered since leaving Yorkshire and the warm reception that Ryan Sidebottom has received since confirming his return to Headingley next season. When Sidebottom makes his second debut next spring – IPL commitments permitting – it will be a decade since he and Hoggard shared in Yorkshire's last County Championship triumph in 2001. Sidebottom took 27 wickets at 24 in eight appearances, Hoggard 26 at 21.5 in seven, with two other seamers making a more substantial contribution to the title. (Who? Have a guess – answer coming up in a few paragraphs.) But Sidebottom's decision to jump ship for Nottinghamshire a couple of years later turned out to be inspired. He will return to Headingley with two more championships under his belt, having taken 48 wickets in Notts' 2005 title-winning season, and played a key role even in limited appearances in the summer just gone, with 27 wickets and a precious innings on the dramatic last day at Old Trafford. (Quiz question two: how many other current county cricketers have won three championships or more?) By contrast Hoggard, who will turn 34 in December – a month before Sidebottom's 33rd birthday – will come back from a family holiday this week to meet with Leicestershire's acting chief executive, Mike Siddall and Paul Haywood, who has returned to the board following Davidson's resignation, and look ahead to another season in the Second Division. The vibes coming out of Grace Road are reasonably positive, with Siddall hoping that all the players who are out of contract will agree to stay – which should help the process of finding a new coach. But Hoggard must cast envious eyes north to Headingley and also south-west to Taunton – where the leading wicket-taker from Yorkshire's 2001 season, Steve Kirby (47 at less than 21), is already talking up his hopes of leading Somerset to the first championship that so cruelly eluded them this year. The other successful Yorkshire seamer nine years ago was Chris Silverwood, now the bowling coach at Essex – who have more off-field dramas, in case you didn't see the Mail this weekend, after the resignation of the former opener Alan Lilley following an allegation of sexual assault – after an unlikely stint in Zimbabwe. Surprisingly, Sidebottom will link up again with only one other survivor from that 2001 team at Headingley next season. No quiz here, because you'll all have worked out that it's the batting stalwart Anthony McGrath. Other county bits and bobs that have been floating around over the last couple of weeks have included: new Glamorgan contracts for Tom Maynard and Jamie Harris, plus the elevation of Robert Croft to join Matthew Maynard's coaching staff; Warwickshire signing Younis Khan as their overseas player for the next two seasons, and agreeing a new one-year contract with the troubled wicket keeper Tim Ambrose; and the realisation that the appointment of a working party to resolve the dispute over next season's Twenty20 and CB40 competitions means the fixture list won't be out until just before Christmas. Plenty to be discussed there, in weather which suggests we really should extend the season into October – especially now that the Old Trafford square has been dug up and is in the process of being rotated, meaning that this lovely autumnal sun would not stop play. 