 England, and Alastair Cook, probably did not need to be reminded that New Zealand will give them nothing in the approaching Test series, but the two hours or so that Cook spent in the middle yesterday was a valuable exercise for all that. The quartet of Kiwi seamers probed away on a good length on or outside Cook's off stump all morning, testing the England opener's patience as well as technique in a manner that will almost certainly be replicated when the first Test begins at Lord's next week.  Cook, while rarely timing the ball as well as he can, applied himself diligently, at least until he got himself out in the second over after lunch, driving a Michael Mason delivery gently into the hands of Kyle Mills at mid-off. With the in-form Ravi Bopara having already departed, unluckily caught behind flicking at a legside delivery from Jacob Oram shortly before the break, Cook's dismissal for 57 pretty much spelled the end of Essex's chances, but the 23-year-old professed himself reasonably satisfied with the state of his game. "It's always been a case of just needing time in the middle, and in the few games I've played I haven't really had that, though if I'd scored three hundreds in my first three innings I'd be thinking I should have saved them for Lord's," said a smiling Cook.  "Obviously it would have been nice to have scored lots of runs but they saw a lot of me in the last two months in New Zealand, so it was a slightly strange situation. They know my game, and I know how they're going to try and get me out, and it's whoever does it better on the day."  The crisp cover drive off Mason with which Cook went to his half-century, off 114 balls, was the shot of a man for whom good form is clearly within reach, but as he acknowledged, the manner in which New Zealand stuck to their gameplan confirms they should not be under-rated. "They did that very well in New Zealand, they have quite defensive fields, but they bowl one side of the wicket and swing the ball," said Cook. "They actually stick to their guns very well, and all credit to them for the way they bowled today." The pick of the New Zealand attack was probably Mason, whose three wickets for 36 runs gave him match figures of seven for 101, and will have pushed him to the front of the queue if Tim Southee's back niggle does not clear up in time for him to be available for the first Test. Consistently well though he, Mills, Iain O'Brien and Oram bowled, however, there was a sameness about the Kiwi attack that emphasised the importance of Daniel Vettori to his team. While the captain remains confident of playing in the first Test, there will be a lot of concern in the camp until he has proved the gashed finger on his spinning hand has healed sufficiently for him to properly grip the ball. Asked about the possibility of resuming his international partnership with Andrew Strauss, Cook suggested the similarities between the two left-handers in terms of style were not at the root of the problem. The average partnership between Cook and Strauss on the 27 times they have opened for England in Tests is 35. On the 12 times Cook and the right-handed Michael Vaughan have opened together, it is 44. "It doesn't matter who you bat with, it's more a case of both of us getting out early," said Cook. "The left-and-right-hand combination had worked very well but Michael Vaughan as captain gets to bat where he wants." 