 Darrell Hair has inspired plenty of emotions over the past two years, butit's safe to say a lump in the throat has not been high up the list.Earlier today in Manchester, though, that was precisely the reaction ofPaul Gilbert, the solicitor who represented Hair when he took theInternational Cricket Council to court for racial discrimination last yearand helped negotiate his reinstatement to the elite panel – a process thatreached fruition when Hair stepped out onto the Old Trafford turf thismorning to stand in his first Test since The Oval in 2006 and all that. "It's been a rollercoaster case," says Gilbert of the legal firm FSI,slipping effortlessly into the language of the sportsman. "I don't mindadmitting I had a lump in my throat this morning when Darrell walked out.We're all very, very proud that he's here." It's a touching reminder that behind Hair's ursine and apparentlyintransigent exterior is a man capable of inspiring loyalty and affection.Gilbert, a keen cricket fan himself, was joined at Old Trafford by threeother members of Hair's legal team, including Robert Griffiths QC, whosesharp cross-examinations during the racial-discrimination hearing exposedinconsistencies in the ICC's approach. "We were all determined to be there when he umpired his first Test," saysGilbert. "We went out for a quiet Chinese meal in Manchester last night andDarrell was actually very relaxed about the prospect of returning. WhenHawkeye showed he was right not to give Jamie How lbw early on to RyanSidebottom, it was nice to know he'd still got it." There may never have been more journalists tapping away on a piece about an umpire as there are right now. It would be an exaggeration to say theassembled hacks were craving a Hair howler to fill out articles which mightotherwise go along the lines of "nothing much happened yesterday". But onlyan exaggeration. Like it or not, the big man has been the focus of attention for the colour and sidebar writers – a state of affairs he was chucklingpresciently about last night over the chicken chow mein. As I write, he andSimon Taufel have offered Ross Taylor and Jacob Oram the chance to go offbecause of the rain, and the accompanying boos when the New Zealanders said yes were the closest Hair has come to controversy all day. Umpires have rarely divided opinion as much as Hair did that day at TheOval. Some felt he applied the letter of the law too rigidly in insistingPakistan had forfeited the match even though Inzamam-ul-Haq belatedlyoffered to take the field after tea on the fourth day. Others pointed outhe was simply doing his job and blamed the Pakistanis for their no-show.Since then, his career has been the stuff of a particularly implausiblesoap opera, and you half-expected another story line today. So far, ithasn't happened. Call me boring, but it's better that way. 