 Those present on the dismal, cold day at Lord's on Thursday saw not only a magnificent innings, but a unique one. Has there ever been such batting in a Test match, especially in the first innings and when the side is in dire trouble, as that of Brendon McCullum? And how far was his freedom enhanced by playing Twenty20 cricket, especially recently, in the Indian Premier League?  Over the years, we have seen fantastic attacking innings in Test matches. Adam Gilchrist springs to mind first; he played with a brilliance combined with technical correctness second to none. Kevin Pietersen has combined power and a basically correct technique with some shots that only he plays. In the 2000s so far the run-rate of every team except West Indies has increased over what it was in the 1990s (which, itself, was much higher than in the '70s and '80s). But what was unique in McCullum's innings was the chutzpah and boldness of footwork that went along with his scintillating eye-hand coordination. Batting against Stuart Broad, no slouch as a fast bowler, he stood a foot or so out of his crease. Nothing unusual in that. But from time to time he would advance a whole step or step and a half further as Broad was about to deliver the ball. And still he had time to sway back and pull him majestically for four. Soon after, he drove him imperiously over extra-cover for six. The problem with such an approach, for less talented players, is that the batsman commits himself so early to a line and to a forward surge that he has no time to react by moving on to the back foot, or by playing a reliable shot if the ball does not land in a drivable slot. But McCullum does seem to have time, along with swiftness of eye and speed-of-bat movement, to play a full range of attacking strokes. He can also defend, classically and correctly enough, from this position.  My own feeling was that a few nasty bouncers might have put paid to this approach (and would have also been an eloquent reply to the batsman's impudence). But England may have seen enough of him to know that that policy could cause even more havoc.  There were a few aerial swishes, and the odd mis-hit landing over the infield, and, on one occasion, just short of the man in the deep. But think of the impact of this method, when it works, on the poor bowler. I remember reading of a century by Charles McCartney, the great Australian batsman, where he would hit the bowlers' best balls for four. Bowlers then and now must have wondered what on earth they could do next. And their anxiety must make them all the more likely to bowl a long-hop or a half-volley. When England batted on Friday evening, and again yesterday morning before the rain set in, sobriety was restored. Alastair Cooke and Andrew Strauss played beautifully, but in orthodox style. The pitch was, and is, easy-paced, though the English bowlers seemed able to get more movement under the chilly cloud than New Zealand's. Back to McCullum. He came in with the score on 41 for three, and led New Zealand, with some help from captain Daniel Vettori and all-rounder Jacob Oram, to a score that was probably above par for the conditions. McCullum arrived late in England, along with four other leading players, as a result of playing in the IPL. So, too, did Oram and Vettori. One might be forgiven for thinking that Twenty20 must be the best possible preparation for Test cricket. And the degree of audacity and confidence revealed in McCullum's innings might have had something to do with such preparation. However, for a different outcome, we should also remember Ross Taylor's brief innings. He, too, has recently come back from the IPL, he, too, approached his task like a man running from a party for a late-night bus, but the outcome was different. Taylor clipped his first ball sweetly for four. He then swished merrily at wide balls; when the ball had gone to short extra-cover he managed to get both batsmen marooned at the bowler's end without either being run out, and after 20 balls spliced a short ball which he was aiming to hit to midwicket to wide slip. Adrenalin seemed to have run riot. The dustcart preceded the Lord Mayor's show.  There have been players who deal with anxiety in this sort of way, with a rush of blood and a flurry of attacking strokes verging on wildness, until they get to 20 or so and then settle down and play 'properly'. The great Rohan Kanhai was such a player. His Warwickshire team-mate David Brown, who played in 26 Tests in the late 1960s and took 79 wickets at 28 apiece (economy rate 2.63), said that if Taylor had batted like that against him on the first morning of a Test match, he would have been bound to ask him what right he had to be there.  It would be a shame for anyone to suppress the attacking urge in either Taylor or McCullum, though no doubt it will be easier for the latter to play outrageous strokes from time to time, as batting is for him a second string to his wicket-keeping. But for Taylor in particular, who, at 24, is clearly a great prospect, who scored a fine century against England at Hamilton, and who was the leading run-scorer in the series, there does need to be a little calming down. Perhaps it was playing at Lord's for the first time. In subsequent innings, he would be better off giving himself a chance to look at the ball before going full blast into Twenty20 mode. 