 Andrew Flintoff did not play in any of the seven Tests in England last year, nor the recent series in New Zealand, but as Michael Vaughan's triumphant cricketers return home he remains the most talked about player in the land. It was the 17th-century French writer François de la Rochefoucauld who observed: "Absence diminishes mediocre passions and increases great ones, as the wind extinguishes candles and kindles fire." And England cricket fans are passionate about Flintoff. There is already speculation that he will return for the first home Test against New Zealand on May 15. But last night two of the men who have known him longest pleaded for patience from the selectors. Jim Cumbes has been chief executive at Lancashire since 1998, the year Flintoff won his county cap, and he said: "I think Fred would be ready for Lord's because when he played for us in a pre-season trip to Dubai last week we expected him to be running in to bowl at about 50% and instead he was about 70%. He looks very fit and strong and eager to play and we are working very closely with the England and Wales Cricket Board. But it might be better to wait until the second Test, which is at Old Trafford. He loves playing there." Cumbes was a proper all-rounder, which is not to say that he batted much, for his 133 first-class innings brought him only 498 runs, but in addition to his fast bowling he kept goal for - among others - Aston Villa, West Bromwich Albion and Coventry City. But he placed a restraining hand on the selectors when he said: "I really do think Fred should bat back in his old England position at six. I know he's got to get more runs but he's got the technique. If he bats at seven he will be required to bowl more overs and he's a big lad who runs in hard so we have to be careful with him." England really want him back as he was in the 2005 Ashes series, when he was the best of a terrific quartet of fast bowlers and a thumping middle-order batsman. But that is too much to hope for at this stage. Flintoff represents a risk to the team at six, where according to recent evidence he will not get the runs, and a risk to himself at seven where, as one of only three front-line seamers, he would be required to bowl extra overs, putting more strain on that fragile left ankle which was operated on for the fourth time last year. The first risk must be the preferred choice. But it would be wiser, surely, to rest him for the New Zealand series, where he will not be needed, and get some cricket under his belt in time for the midsummer action against South Africa. Lancashire intend to play Flintoff in two friendly matches against Yorkshire, of one-day and two-day duration, at Old Trafford on April 7-9. They also expect him to appear in their opening County Championship fixture against Surrey at The Oval on April 16. "But I think the MCC match against Sussex on April 10 might be too much for him," said Cumbes. John Stanworth, Lancashire's academy director and player-development manager, gave Flintoff the now inseparable nickname "Freddie", having known him since he was 15. Stanworth, who was with him in India recently, said: "Freddie looks great but he's a bit rusty, to be honest. And he can still look vulnerable as a front-line batsman. He also has this fragility in his body, however good he looks. He has had a whole catalogue of complaints, so he must not rush things. If he breaks down again I would really worry for him." With Flintoff, out of sight is clearly not out of mind. But without becoming Ashes-obsessed once more, England must do everything to get Flintoff and his mate Steve Harmison back in form in time for the visit of Australia next year, when they will still be only 31 and 30. Harmison, like Matthew Hoggard, faces a tough stint of county cricket before coming into the frame again. But Ryan Sidebottom and the richly promising Stuart Broad should be wrapped in cotton wool. The top order still looks strangely misshapen and the batsmen, too, must be given plenty of county work in the coming weeks. But you have to feel desperately sorry for Owais Shah, who was hauled around Sri Lanka and New Zealand without getting a game. At almost 30 he is becoming long-toothed for a prodigy. 