 1.30pm There is still no news about whether the umpires are going to report Usman Afzaal, the Surrey batsman, for his show of petulance here last night, but they would appear to have little choice in the matter writes Paul Weaver from the Oval. Afzaal, bowling the last over of the day to Jacques Rudolph, made a strong appeal for a catch at short leg and immediately went into a celebration jig with a number of Surrey players. Then, when umpire Nigel Cowley did not uphold the appeal, the player flung the ball to the ground. Afzaal may have been unlucky, for the ball appeared to come off the face of the bat. But that did not excuse his behaviour. He had revenge, of sorts, this morning, when he had Rudolph lbw for 121 when the batsman failed to play a stroke. Rudolph had batted for three and a half hours, faced 194 deliveries and struck 18 fours. When he first played for Yorkshire as a Kolpak last season, there were cynics who said he wouldn't be around for long. But he has proved to be a good team man and a top flight player - at this level, at least. Gerard Brophy and Adil Rashid then fell to the spin of Saqlain Mushtaq and Afzaal but Andrew Gale was still there at lunch on 126 when Yorkshire were 399 for six. 3pm At the fifth time of asking the champions, Sussex, finally wrapped up their first win of the season yesterday, taking the five wickets needed to beat the current leaders 25 minutes before lunch, writes Mike Averis at Trent Bridge. With showers threatened Chris Adams bowled his new signing, Corey Collymore, throughout the day and the 30-year-old West Indian seamer again returned with four wickets for the innings. "You can see why he's still ranked 11th in the world," said Adams later. However the news about Sussex's other world-class bowler, Mushtaq Ahmed, is not so good. After missing two games following keyhole surgery to repair damage to his right knee, he still looks rusty. Last time Mushtaq was at Trent Bridge he settled the chase for the title in 2006, taking nine wickets in Nottinghamshire's second innings to send them down to the second division. In the first innings he struggled, bowling 13 overs before taking a wicket. Yesterday the rhythm was better and he picked two more, but the wrist-spinner, who will be 38 next month, was still expensive, going at close to five an over. "Mushy has to bowl and get through, then the rhythm will come back," said Adams before backing his wicket keeper, Matt Prior, to regain an England place either as a wicket keeper or wicket keeper-batsman. "He could bat at either five or six for England," said Adams after reflecting on the rapid first innings century followed by a solid 64 - the two highest scores of the match - which were the difference between the sides in a low-scoring game. Adams described Trent Bridge, where the third Test starts in two weeks, as "a difficult place to be as a batsman," but the Nottinghamshire captain, Chris Read, preferred instead to blame his batsmen. "We've played three games at Trent Bridge and we have struggled to set up a platform," said Read. "We have bowled fabulously well but we have made too many errors." Yesterday those errors - particularly the six catches put down in the Sussex second innings - left the last five Nottinghamshire batsmen needing another 172 when play started. Read and Graeme Swann hung around to take their sixth wicket partnership to 78, but when they departed in the space of an over Nottinghamshire were still 123 short. Mushtaq had Read caught at short leg for 56 with his best ball of the morning and Collymore found extra bounce to undo Swann. 4.30pm There's not been much happening here this afternoon, writes Paul Weaver at the Oval. They bowled just 2.1 overs after lunch and then shuffled off for an hour because of rain. They are going to tack on half an hour at the end of play if the weather allows. Yorkshire had no intention of declaring behind the Surrey total. They ground on and on in one of four-day cricket's less compelling spectacles. Gale reached 150 but next ball was caught at the second attempt by Pedro Collins after he top-edged a hook to long leg. But there was more bad luck for Yorkshire on the fast bowling front when Rana Naved, who had scored 19, collapsed in a heap after turning for a second run. Naved limped off the field with the score on 465 for seven clutching the back of his leg, so it could be a hamstring. He has gone for a scan and it doesn't look good. This is his debut for the county, remember. Yorkshire aren't having much luck with their overseas players. Morne Morkel did his hamstring after playing just one match. The county are already without their two injured England fast bowlers Darren Gough and Matthew Hoggard. At tea the Yorkies are 507 for seven. Tim Bresnan is 67 not out and Gideon Kruis, who has hit a couple of sixes, is on 17. 