 Right, that’s all from here. It’s been... something. England’s next match is a dead rubber against Afghanistan on Friday.  As if Monday’s aren’t bad enough. Sod it - let’s all pretend this never happened.  
 Ah well, let’s ease our woes with that most English of pursuits - self-deprication: #BringBackCook .@miller_cricket @tickerscricket Yeah but it's always more hilarious when it's presented in this way… pic.twitter.com/m1KcpJRFtj Dear @ECB_cricket, this might not be a great time, but as there's room in your schedule, fancy a game in Japan on the way home? #challenge 
 “Is it bad form to be happy with this?” Andrew Mullinder continues...  “England have been a shower in the ODI game for ages, but at least we’ve been so dismal, and failed so comprehensively, that it will force a serious assessment of our game. Better that than scrape to the quarters and allow the usual suspects to ‘take the positives’ and be ‘optimistic’.” 
 Mike Selvey reports from the Adelaide Oval. “England are out of the World Cup.”  “On a ground that has seen humiliation heaped upon them more than once in the past decade, they suffered one more ignominy, hustled out of the competition by a vibrant Bangladesh team who belied their status as whipping boys and delighted their thousands of supporters in the stands.” “In the end it was not even close. Set 276 to win, after Mahmadullah Riyad had underpinned the Bangladesh innings with his country’s first ever world cup century.  “England were rarely in the race.” Full report here.  Updated
 Peter Moores on Sky Sports just now... “You just feel hollow. You don’t know what to say or what yo feel. You just feel like you’ve let people down. “I thought it was going to be a good pitch. I think we should have chased 275 down. We didn’t play well enough.” “The analysis we do, we don’t do as it’s talked about in the press. That’s not the issue here - we just haven’t played well enough.” 
 “I think we’ve got to be honest here and say Zimbabwe, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Ireland genuinely represent England’s current class,” says Vinny K-Maddage, from London. “It’s all very well hitting centuries in relatively meaningless friendly test matches; it’s here and now that matters and time after time, England somehow manage to fail.Like the football team, we have one of the most overfunded, overstaffed and underperforming sporting bodies in world sport. It’s time we call it a day with the current approach and refresh most of our game. You only have to look at our recent opponents and tournament specialists, Sri Lanka to see how it’s done.” https://twitter.com/miller_cricket/status/574903314762108928 
 Regardless of England’s forms, the woes of the last year, England’s deep-rooted malaise in limited overs cricket, Bangladesh’s performance, the lack of suction and/or friction on the shoulder of Chris Jordan’s bat - this is shockingly awful.  I’ll let you, loyal OBO-ers, have your say, starting with Stephen Pay:  “Firstly of course, one has to say congratulations to Bangladesh on what looks to have been a thoroughly deserved victory that will go down in history.  “Secondly, now can we please get on the root and branch reform of the game that’s needed. A thoroughly deserved exit at the earliest stage for a side that has been little short of shambolic.” “Anybody who doesn’t understand why this happened, who’s responsible and what must happen next is beyond help,” writes Timothy Beecroft.  
 49th over: Does it matter? Probably. Good delivery first up and Broad is sent packing. He gestures to James Anderson, No.11, that it’s reversing. Hossain is wide and yorker-length to Jimmy, who gets a thin edge but it’s stopped by a wide first slip. Brilliant next up, tailing slightly away but originally arrowing for Anderson’s pads. Bowled.  Garbage. 
 Just a very, very good delivery. Broad tries to give himself room, but the ball moves away from him off the pitch and clocks the top of middle and off.  
 48th over: England 260-8 (Woakes 42, Broad 9) Woakes digs out a yorker from Taskin and Broad takes on a short ball... and crunches it for six over midwicket! Fantastic connection. Flicks it fine and that’s another two. And then a no ball for height - is Taskin crumbling under the pressure? Already 11 from the over and still three balls remaining. Woakes on strike and goes high to the man at deep mid on... BUT IT’S DROPPED!!! Iqbal’s the fielder and it was in the air for an age. And breathe...  "Tell your mate he's just cost me my job." #CWC15 pic.twitter.com/mZ1yip1FbC 
 47th over: England 245-8 (Woakes 38, Broad 1) Woakes starts with a four first up but ends with a fluffed hack at a full-toss. Broad’s friend will be the short boundary. It’ll also probably be is downfall.  
 46th over: England 238-8 (Woakes 32) Back of the hand slower ball from Taskin is a full toss but Woakes can only smear it to the cover boundary for two. Superb four next up as Woakes waits on one and goes up and under over cover for four. He then digs out a yorker for one - good batting, that. But Buttler goes, feathering one through to Rahim. Taskin is ecstatic. Jordan tries to get off the mark straight away and there’s a direct hit as he turns and dives back into his ground. It looks like the shoulder is down. It’s not. He’s gone.  
 Shoulder of the bat up as Jordan dives back into his crease. Or maybe it was a mercy killing from the third umpire.  Updated
 45th over: England 229-6 (Buttler 63, Woakes 25) Shakib tosses one wide and Woakes gets on one knee to drive for two. Strike turned to Buttler, who crunches through cover but can’t beat the diving fielder.  47 needed off 30 balls. 
 44th over: England 224-6 (Buttler 62, Woakes 21) Woakes is on the back foot against Rubel Hossain and swipes him high over the head of mid on, who is up in the circle. The ball plugs but it allows a three, getting Buttler back on strike. He gives himself room but Hossain is full and straight, but not straight enough from a Bangladeshi perspective. Buttler gets the strike after a couple of singles and squeezes the ball past third man for four. Edged, but who gives one. They all ruddy count. Much better the next ball, as he waits and caresses the ball through the same region, in a much more convincing manner.  
 43rd over: England 211-6 (Buttler 53, Woakes 17) Buttler starts the over with a fine four through midwicket. Rank ball from the leg spinner, that. Singles - four of them - for the rest of the over. Fifty for Buttler - what a player he is. We really don’t deserve him. Updated
 42nd over: England 203-6 (Buttler 47, Woakes 15) Taskin back on for his 7th over. Buttler hits a full toss down the ground for two and then has a tickle at another. Delightful scoop gets Jos a four. Woakes gets involved now with a lovely back foot slap through cover-point, which beats the boundary rider out at deep point.  David Wolfe, from South Africa, is one of a number of international cricket fans that hope England tank. And for good reason, to be fair: “There are quite a number of people here who hope England leaves the World Cup as soon as possible. They are really angry that England, Australia and India has conspired to leave out SA, NZ, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, etc and push their own interests with the ICC. Australia and India are tough but people here are celebrating England’s disastrous showing.” 
 41st over: England 192-6 (Buttler 40, Woakes 11) Buttler goes boom - glorious six over extra cover, inside out, immediately puts Sunny under pressure. Smart running sees two of the next ball. 11 in all from the over. “I think it’s safe to say that however silly Finny et al feel wearing their lollipop lady smocks on the sidelines, you can be darn sure that they’re thanking all things holy that they’re not playing today,” writes Sarah Bacon. “This contest has Adelaide Redux written all over it. Or rather (as it’ll be no doubt alluded to in the future): ‘Don’t mention the war: I mentioned it once, and I think I got away with it’.” 
 40th over: England 181-6 (Buttler 30, Woakes 10) Poor shot from Woakes but, luckily, he doesn’t get anything through to the keeper. Meanwhile, Tom from Andover knows where the real blame lies for England’s malaise... “The Guardian OBO-ers have to take some of the blame for what is going on here. Normally, this erudite bunch are discussing cake and stuff of the telly from the 1980’s, but during this World Cup they keep talking about ‘cricket’ of all things?!?! I believe they have put off the entire England team with their chirping when they should be doing what they do best instead; talking bollocks!” "Edged again this time no" is the most Nick Knight sentence Nick Knight has ever said 
 39th over: England 178-6 (Buttler 28, Woakes 9) Patient from both, as Shakib throws up a couple of tempters but is largely on the money/mark/donk etc.  Ollie Orton oemails oin:  “It’s a depressing world where I would now rather go to the library and do some of the work I’ve neglected for the last eight weeks than watch England tumble out of the latest competition. I suppose if I pass my degree I can thank Peter Moores and co. for making that decision as easy as possible...” “Was this worth cancelling a winter of Test Cricket and messing about with the Ashes schedule?” asks Fraser Murray. “It doesn’t look like it just now…” 
 38th over: England 173-6 (Buttler 26, Woakes 6) Caught and bowled chance shelled. And it was Buttler, too. HE does’t read the slower ball and shovels it back to the bowler. On reflection, no way he could had taken that given the way his body was contorted and the low trajectory of the ball.  “Chris Woakes looks like a default player on International Superstar Soccer for the N64 (we used to refer to that game by the abbreviation IS Soccer. Wouldn’t anymore) and also like the Head Boy at the other, nicer school in your home town who goes a bit mental on prom night and starts screaming, blind drunk about everyone expecting him to be perfect. We are safe in his hands.”  Good points, Jake Farrell, all well made.  
 37th over: England 169-6 (Buttler 23, Woakes 5) Five runs from the over. Woakes is a good batsman, so a 30-odd from him, mixed with some Buttler slaps, and it’s England’s game. Should also factor in Chris Jordan’s ability to swing hard. We’ll be reeeeeeet.  I think somehow, deep down, we all knew Chris Woakes' batting would save us... #CWC15 #ENGvBAN 
 36th over: England 164-6 (Buttler 22, Woakes 1) Root goes just after there’s a stifled appeal for a caught behind off Buttler. Meanwhile, there’s a trend developing in my inbox...  Robin Hazelhurst: “England losing here would certainly lead to a feeling of grim satisfaction that at least it’s all over.” Tony Whitley: “Of all games, it seems to me, cricket is a confidence game and it clear that this is massively lacking in this group of overwhelmed and confused individuals.Surely, not being vindictive, the finger must point at management here.” 
 35th over: England 161-5 (Root 28, Buttler 21) Six runs in singles, which is decent going at this stage. Power Play up next. I’m going for 30-1.  
 34th over: England 155-5 (Root 25, Buttler 18) Sunny on and the strike is rotated a bit. I don’t really know anymore. At least we haven’t lost a wicket, yeah?  “It’s not as if they are bad players individually but something in the collective seems to be totally undermining this team,” writes a concerned Simon Gates. “When they get home they should as a matter of urgency compare notes with the Scotland rugby team, who have the same affliction.” 
 33rd over: England 150-5 (Root 23, Buttler 15) Shakib now into the attack and both the right-handers play him quite well. The 150 comes up to that music they always play in the darts.  “I do understand the perverse desire to see England lose, in the hope that it may in fact end up leading to a brighter future….but it won’t, will it?,” Probably not, Jonathan Wood. “I know that’s not the way England’s administrators work. We’ll have investigations, committees, sub-committees, reports, hand-wringing, and then nothing will change. Except they might sack Pietersen again.” 
 32nd: over: England 146-5 (Root 22, Buttler 12) Glorious cover drive from Buttler - all wrists and a cleared front foot makes Jos a happy boy. Taskin tries not to repeat the trick but Buttler wanders down and punches him through cover for another four! “Kevin Pietersen must be laughing his head off,” writes an angry Vic on his iPad (show off). “Bring back Fred Trueman and Bob Willis, May, Cowdrey and Barrington. What ever happened to bowling a good line and length and putting bat on ball and scoring runs. Too much technical and not enough Cricket. It’s painful to watch. The Aussies, South Africa and other countries try taking the game away from their opponents whereas we try to stay in it. Pathetic!!!!” Updated
 31st over: England 137-5 (Root 21, Buttler 4) England’s ballsiest two batsmen at the crease. It’s them or ignominy, really. Good from Hossain, as Buttler takes two and then a single to the fifth ball. And the sixth.  I’m going to level with you - I’m really scared.  Paul in Stuttgart has been an England supporter since 1971: “I’ve never seen anything approaching this bad from an England team. And that includes Summer 1976 when we were beaten by a team better than us in every way. This time it’s ourselves that are our worst enemy. Burn-out? Arrogance? Utter confusion behind the scenes? Zero confidence? Go away and start again!” 
 30th over: England 133-5 (Root 20, Buttler 1) Taskin into the attack and he does well to stop two nicely timed drives, which were meant to go straight back past him. Slower ball is worked to midwicket for a single by Root. Taylor then does a weird jump, throws his hands at the ball and wristly flicks, all in one shot. He’s caught at first slip. Buttler to the crease.  22 dots, 3 wickets in last 30 balls for England... 
 29th over: England 131-4 (Root 19, Taylor 1) Hossain in a nice rhythm. He’s a fascinating bowler to watch, with his bowling arm jutting out in his approach like a wing mirror. Root keeps his nerve and defends well before nailing a short length ball through midwicket for four!  An e-mail from Andrew McCarthy: “Cat >>>pigeons. Ducks. Mares. Rabbits. Donkeys. Quite the menagerie.”  
 28th over: England 126-4 (Root 14, Taylor 1) Prior to Bell’s dismissal, quite a few of you had e-mailed in to tell me to tell him to get a move on. Ian Copestake has offered the following: “I have a less scientific note to add to Matt Jones’s email, namely how many England supporters are hoping they lose so that we don’t have to go through all this again.” Procession of dots is ended by a nice drive down the ground by Root for three runs.  I'm not even playing the chucklehead Australian having a go. I just feel a bit sorry for them. Faces like kids in a waiting room. #CWC15 Sympathy From The Aussies - The Stones Updated
 27th over: England 123-4 (Root 10, Taylor 1) Bell goes first thing and then Morgan hooks and finds Shakib Al Hasan in the deep. That’s the skipper’s fifth duck in his last 9 innings. Grim. Updated
 Morgan hooks and looks to have really got hold of it, but Shakib skirts the boundary rope and takes a fine catch.  CAT >>>>>> PIGEONS! Updated
 26th over: England 121-2 (Bell 63, Root 10) Thinned to third man for two before Bell tries the same thing again and nearly edges through to the keeper. High risk, low reward short, that. He goes harder and in front of point this time but his shot is stopped smartly.  
 Matt Jones has the floor: “I’m following Ian Bell’s dotathon on the OBO, and while it is somewhat (ok, exceedingly) pedestrian, it does seem to me that the whole way we assess run rates in ODIs now has to change. Not just the way we calculate likely final scores, but also the way we think about the right balance of aggression and consolidation at different points in an innings. Which in turn could lead to a rethink of batting order. I reckon teams should now be working backwards from a 20:20 scenario where they can score 200+ off the last 20 overs. And for that they need at least 5 good wickets (assuming 2 non-batsmen in each line-up).  “If we then assume that 350 is becoming the target now for teams batting first, then par at 30 overs is having 150 runs on the board with 7+ wickets intact. Once you think like that then how you get to that 150/3 or better platform starts to feel a little irrelevant.  “Back when 10/over seemed bold, you could make a case for Hales and the like to bat up the order. But now we need 15-20/over from them (Glenn Maxwell style), which must mean them coming in later. Just food/waffle for thought...” Updated
 25th over: England 118-2 (Bell 60, Root 10) Fine shot from Root, just as the rate was rising. He’s quick onto a short ball from Hossain, pulling it in front of square for four! Few more dabs to third man and Root tries to cut a ball that’s far too straight. Luckily, it misses his edge and his stumps.  
 24th over: England 111-2 (Bell 58, Root 5) Mortaza with a handful of variations, just for the sake of it, I reckon. Bell then goes aerially over the top and the ball plugs, inches from the boundary rope, and Ian Ronald has to run three.  
 23rd over: England 105-2 (Bell 53, Root 4) Rubel Hossain back and he’s getting a bit of shape into the right-handers. Bell guides a single through cover before Root, playing straight for three balls, then late cuts for a single to third man.  Can England get another 160 singles through backward point.... The tension rises. 
 22nd over: England 103-2 (Bell 52, Root 3) Loose from Root, as he tries to drive a ball that’s not full enough. However, it’s chipped over the head of backward point.  
 21st over: England 101-2 (Bell 51, Root 2) Sunny back into the attack and Bell moves to his fifty with his 66th ball. Decent from Bell, but a hell of a lot of dots in there, too. The team 100 is brought up soon after.  
 20th over: England 97-2 (Bell 49, Root 0) Mortaza lifts up a trouser leg to reveal what looks like a bionic leg. Bell puts him through point for a single allowing Hales to face some pace. Immediately, he’s back and across and timing him through midwicket for four! Another boundary, as Mortaza over-corrects and is now wide of off stump, allowing Hales to free his arms and hit through point. But Mortaza has the last laugh as Hales nibbles at one. Then Root, new to the crease, has his edge beaten.  
 19th over: England 88-1 (Bell 47, Hales 19) Time for some leg spin from the wrists of Sabbir Rahman. Better rotation from England, but Bell misses out on a long-hop by clunking it down the ground for one rather than into the stands for more. Five from the over.  
 18th over: England 83-1 (Bell 45, Hales 17) Single to get Bell off strike immediately after drinks. Diligent from Hales, who meets Shakib’s tempter front on. Down the track next, but the ball straightens, so Hales readjusts to just push into the off side, again for no run. Scampered single brings Bell back and he’s hopping back to push through cover for another single. Good over from Shakib.  