 Of all the scenarios in cricket, none is more ripe for cock-up than running between the wickets, and none with more comedic potential than when it involves someone running on behalf of an injured batsman (or for the ultimate rib-tickler, both batsmen). Feydeau could never have scripted better some of the farcical situations that have happened. Here are a few just from personal memory. How about the time at Trent Bridge that Ian Healy had Dean Jones come out to run for him, tortoise and hare, whereupon something prompted Healy not to just forget that he was injured but actually to beat his runner over two runs. David Gower, who had sanctioned the runner, sent Jones packing. Or the time at Southend when batsman and runner both ran a quick single, whereupon the injured party was able to surreptitiously stroll back while the Essex team were arguing about which end to throw the ball. Or Middlesex's Mike Smith, bloodied from a hit on the nose, almost being run out by his runner Ian Gould first ball they were together, and angrily dispatching him back to the Lord's pavilion. And how did Steve Waugh feel, I wonder, when he was left stranded unbeaten on 99 in a Perth Test because his twin brother acting as a runner, had run out Australia's last man. Then there was Lancashire's Graeme Fowler scoring a century in each innings of a remarkable match at Southport in 1982, not one single run of which he had to run himself because of a thigh strained while fielding through Warwickshire's 523 for four. Somewhere in all this there is a very entertaining Joy of Six. No more alas. Not in international cricket anyway. This week, on what I believe to have been the unanimous recommendation of the ICC's 16-person cricket committee, which includes the chairman, Clive Lloyd, and past and present players in Ian Bishop, Tim May, Kumar Sangakkara, Mark Taylor, Gary Kirsten and Clare Connor, the ICC executive committee rubber-stamped their recommendation that runners no longer be allowed in any form of international cricket. And this at a time when a frequent subject of debate is whether in fact, it would be better to head in the other direction and actually allow substitute participating players, which is to say those who are able to bat and bowl, on occasion of disabling injury. It is a debate that has been rumbling on for several years, brought to a head perhaps by the issue not of pulled muscles or, say, a foot damaged by a special from Lasith Malinga, but of cramp, something particularly highlighted in a Centurion Champions League match between South Africa and England a couple of years back, when the South African captain, Graeme Smith, cramping after scoring a century, was refused a runner, AB de Villiers, by Andrew Strauss who reasoned that after a long innings in hot conditions, a batsman is going to be drained and that it wasn't that serious anyway. Smith was dismissed shortly afterwards and his side lost the match. "Cramping to a certain extent is a preparation thing," Strauss said at the time. "It's a conditioning thing. I didn't feel that he merited having a runner at that stage. I didn't feel he was cramping that badly either. He was still able to run. That was my view." Thus, Strauss encapsulated the difficulty in interpretation. It becomes a matter of judgment and degree. How serious does it have to be? Law 2.1 provides that if the umpires are satisfied that a player has been injured or become ill at any time after the nomination of the players (irrespective of whether play was in progress or not) they shall allow that player to have a runner while batting. As a result of the Centurion incident and some others, the ICC medical committee decided at first that cramp should not be considered an illness or injury, only to reverse this at its last meeting. Umpires thus were directed to allow a batsman suffering from cramp to have a runner, something that has continued to attract criticism, with suspicions of misuse of the system. It is very difficult for umpires to establish the authenticity or seriousness of alleged injuries or illness especially whether it was contracted prior to or during the match. Players known to have prior injuries will often claim a recurrence of the same injury or a new injury. It is virtually impossible for the umpires to disprove player claims especially when supported by the player's medical staff. One instance believed to have been reported to the committee concerned a tail-ender batting with a runner, who subsequently opened the bowling shortly afterwards. So now batsmen with cramp are going to have to do the same as bowlers with cramp. Running between the wickets, it is argued, is no different in principle from running in to bowl but no bowler is allowed someone to come on and run up for them, or indeed take over bowling for a period of time. And the batsman always has the option of retiring hurt, to return at a later stage if the situation demands and the opportunity is there. Thus disappears another quirk of the game. 