 Daryl Tuffey has followed his former New Zealand team-mate Chris Cairns by “unequivocally” denying allegations that he has ever been involved in match- or spot-fixing. Tuffey, a seam bowler who played 26 Tests and 94 one-day internationals between 1999 and 2011, was named with Cairns and Lou Vincent by the New Zealand Herald last December as being under investigation by the International Cricket Council’s Anti-Corruption and Security Unit – and pledged at the time “to fully co-operate with the ICC and provide them with any relevant information in his possession”. But whereas Vincent is understood to have admitted his involvement in fixing and turned whistleblower to the ICC, Tuffey has followed Cairns by insisting on his innocence. Unlike Cairns, Tuffey was not named in the evidence given to the ACSU by Elly Riley, Vincent’s former wife, which appeared in the New Zealand media earlier this week. But it was that evidence which apparently prompted the statement from his Sydney-based lawyers. “Mr Tuffey has not seen a copy of Ms Riley’s account but has been asked by the media to comment on allegations that he was involved in or financially benefited from match-fixing or spot-betting,” the statement read. “These allegations are regarded by Mr Tuffey as the most serious kind and are unequivocally denied by him. “Since the commencement of this matter earlier this year to date, Mr Tuffey or his lawyers have not been presented with a single scintilla of evidence to substantiate these claims. “Mr Tuffey is naturally frustrated by the unsubstantiated attacks on his good name levelled by a few self-interested individuals. He does, however, remain committed to continued co-operation with the authorities regarding this matter and is confident that he will ultimately be cleared of any wrong-doing.” The Herald has also reported that Andre Adams, a former New Zealand all-rounder currently playing with Nottinghamshire, has provided evidence to the ACSU, in addition to Vincent, the current captain Brendon McCullum, and an unnamed “New Zealand cricketing great”. It appears that New Zealand’s tour of England in the summer of 2008 has become a focus of attention for the ACSU. Vincent came to England that summer originally to play league cricket although he subsequently joined Lancashire, having made the last of his 134 international appearances in Perth the previous December. McCullum has reportedly said in his leaked evidence to the ACSU that he was approached by his “hero” in a cafe when the team were staying in Worcester. Meanwhile, the International Cricket Council will investigate how evidence given to the investigation had been leaked to the media and take action against anyone employed by the ruling body if involved, its chief executive Dave Richardson said on Wednesday. Richardson said the ICC “deeply regretted” the leaks and reiterated that McCullum was not under investigation. “We are taking all steps available to us to urgently investigate how certain information in the form of statements has come to find its way into the media,” he said in a statement. “Of course, we recognise that this is a deeply concerning development for the stakeholders in the fight against corruption in the sport of cricket, and we wish to emphasise that Brendon McCullum is not under investigation in this matter.” New Zealand Cricket said earlier this week it was disappointed that McCullum’s statements had been made public and would ask the world governing body to investigate the source of the leaks. Richardson told Radio New Zealand on Wednesday that the investigation into the leaks had already been launched but said it was premature to suggest they had come from within the ICC. “This is an investigation that crosses three or four jurisdictions and involves liaison with other stakeholders, law enforcement agencies, players who have been interviewed,” Richardson said. “Of course we are devastated over these leaks, but it is premature to say whether anyone involved in the ACSU was involved. But certainly if we are able to find out that person will be removed.” 