 To gaze over the cricket ground at Worcester yesterday, where the sun shone from a milky blue sky and the horse-chestnut trees were in garish early leaf, was to be struck by nature's powers of regeneration. For much of last summer New Road was a scene of desolation, twice submerged during the cruellest summer floods in its history. Today championship cricket returns when Worcestershire face Leicestershire. It is a cause for thanks. It was impolite to mention it at the time but, when the floods receded, cricket's most sylvan setting smelt of pig excrement. Muckspreading had just taken place upstream and much of it was transported to New Road as the Severn burst its banks. "It was like being in a pig sty," recalled the chief executive, Mark Newton. "We even had to have it tested for toxicity." If the fumes were non-toxic, the same could not be said of Worcestershire's balance sheet. The floods cost well over £1.1m in clean-up costs, lost equipment and lost revenue. A county that budgets for a £50,000 profit suffered a loss of £603,000, a shortfall reduced by an insurance payout, grants and private donations. With the Indian Premier League's flaunting of money and celebrity dominating attention, Worcestershire's quintessentially English setting offers different values. But the connection is apparent. The IPL has brought a rush of interest in Worcestershire's own Twenty20 games, easing fears that the bad memories of last summer, when their entire programme was washed out, would put people off. It has always flooded at Worcester - 137 times since 1899. What was different was the time of year. New Road had flooded only twice between June and August. "The most horrific moment was not the first flood in June," said Newton, "although that was bad enough. It was when after all our work, with 200 volunteers cleaning and Lancashire here for a championship match, it happened again." Ground improvements have been delayed for a year but the plans are for every building to be above flood height, 15 feet higher than the boundary. Everywhere below will be a flood catchment area. The problem is that everywhere else still includes the playing area. "I could bore you to death about flooding," Newton said. "I have diagrams of every river and stream that flows into our catchment area. I have bar charts of every flood from the 1950s. I can't stop watching weather forecasts. But we have not lost our homes like some people around here. We just have to get on with it." Yesterday, for the first time, the sun shone gloriously. The outfield is slightly bare in places but the square looks excellent, benefiting from the fact that, with no cricket, the end-of-season work could begin early. The head groundsman, Tim Packwood, was as philosophical as most of his breed. "If you build a ground on a flood plain, you just have to get on with it. There is no point in beating yourself up."  He joined Worcestershire 19 years ago, on April 1, and New Road has been playing the fool on him ever since. In the groundsman's hut, flood levels are marked on the wall with little black pears (Worcestershire's emblem). A bottle of champagne lies ready to be opened tonight. Issues remain about how easily New Road can adapt to a rapidly changing cricket world. Worcestershire are reluctant to respond to ECB encouragement to install permanent floodlights. Newton said: "They would probably have to be retractable to get planning permission and I can't see the point of retracting electrical equipment into a flood plain." Even the famous horse chestnuts have had to be pruned because of blight. But the cathedral bells will peal specially on Sunday to welcome Worcestershire back home. Despite impressions to the contrary, it appears that God is still on Worcestershire's side. Wet wet wet June 2007 The River Severn floods New Road just before the first big-money Twenty20 match July Worcestershire insist the ground will be ready for game against Kent. It isn't and Kent threaten legal action. The ground is cleared again - and it floods, again. The county give up trying to play at HQ  August Worcestershire are relegated  September The county reveals the cost of the floods - £1.1m January 2008 Another flood, this time of the "normal" winter variety ... and the weather forcast for 2008 'The risk of exceptional rainfall is very low," says the Met Office. But then they said that last year ... 