 Competing against Australia does strange things to you. The whole world begins to shrink, until suddenly there are only two types of people left: winners and losers. Defeat in the second Ashes Test this week confirmed, as we all suspected, that England belong firmly in the loser caste. This is a radical apartheid: one Australian journalist has suggested England's losers had no right even to shake hands at the end of the match, with the opposition or each other, so disgraceful was their blatant loserliness. "Show me a good loser and I'll show you a loser." This is the kind of thing winners say - usually through clenched teeth, eyes narrowed, one hand clamped on your shoulder as you try to edge away from them in the pub toilet, all the while thinking "why do they always pick on me, I only popped in for a quick sharpener and a packet of fags?" There are, of course, two sides to this. Show me a winner and I'll show you someone who takes ice baths while reciting the words to Search For The Hero Inside Yourself, a brooding maniac quietly folding towels in his hotel room and slipping post-it notes under his team-mates' doors with messages like "it's only a game - but it's the only game". Winners spend hours in darkened rooms "visualising" the moment of victory. Winners don't do drugs. In fact, winners don't sound like much fun at all. Sadly, it looks as if the only real alternative for a nation of losers is to become a nation of winners. Presumably an average day in a winners' republic would go a bit like this: wake up in painful squatting position at end of bed - winners never lie down. Shave in broad, sweeping strokes to soft-rock soundtrack. Eat 17 Weetabix. Why? Because they're there. Adopt alert crouch at bus stop. Incapacitate driver with one-inch punch to oesophagus for suggesting you might not have a ticket: if you want to swim with the big boys, better bring your water wings. Pass journey doing cryptic crossword in Romanian and attempting personal best for holding breath. At work spend 15 minutes awkwardly manoeuvring yourself and 12 colleagues into a crowded lift; winners never take a backward step. Spend rest of day working out format for squash ladder where you and your 600 fellow chief executives are all constantly on the top rung, yet still somehow always ahead of each other. Get delayed on the way home by League Of Losers rally demonstrating against domination of international tombola and fruit machine resources by global winners' elite. On the other hand, there might be some advantages to remaining a nation of losers. There's definitely less pressure to chew gum and maintain a steely facial expression. A career in the Christmas gaffes and bloopers DVD market is always an option. Plus there's something to be said for sticking to what you know. Another suggestion from Australia this week was that defeat in Adelaide will "haunt" English cricket for years to come. Permit me an indulgent chuckle. If anything has been haunting us, it's last year's utterly disorienting Ashes victory. Sudden and humiliating defeat? It's like coming home from a long journey in a strange land. 