 Three of the world's top cricketers have appeared in court accused of exposing their sport to "rampant corruption" in the fourth Test between Pakistan and England at Lord's, the home of cricket. Pakistan's former captain Salman Butt, along with Mohammad Asif, the former No 2 in cricket's bowling world rankings, and Mohammad Amir, the teenager who was the quickest player in cricket history to take 50 Test wickets, were said to have conducted a betting conspiracy that was "a betrayal of the sport of cricket itself". The prosecution at Southwark crown court cited telephone and text message records that appear to show a good deal of traffic between the three players, a players' agent and unknown figures in India and Dubai whose involvement was described as sinister. Like the three players, the south London-based agent Mazhar Majeed denies charges of accepting corrupt payments and of cheating at cricket. Asif and Butt were in court and the jury was informed that there was "nothing sinister" in the absences of Majeed and Amir. They are accused of arranging three no balls to be bowled at pre-agreed times during the Test match in August last year. Aftab Jafferjee QC said there were "simply breathtaking" sums of money involved in foreign betting markets, with an estimated $40bn to $50bn spent in the Indian sub-continent in one year alone. Jafferjee, prosecuting, said: "By the time the last Test match at Lord's took place, each of them were well at it – the two bowlers being orchestrated by their captain, and the captain's agent, Majeed, to bowl three no balls at a pre-arranged point in the game. The bowlers were willing participants so that they could all profit – those lower down the ladder probably profiting less than those at the top. "Their activity represents a betrayal by them of their own team, their own board of cricket, and most damaging of all a betrayal of the sport of cricket itself – and all for greed." The case came to light after an undercover journalist for the News of the World made recordings of conversations with Majeed, in which the agent boasted he could arrange so-called "spot fixes" for betting purposes. The court heard what the prosecution described as a "depressing tale of rampant corruption" that provided a menu of events open to be fixed if the price was right. According to the prosecution, even fixing the result of a Test match would not be out of the question for Majeed, who boasted he "already" had six players who would be willing participants in the plot. "I've got six first team guys — all proper players," Majeed is alleged to have said. "We are not going to do 'results' for the next two games because we want Butt to be captain, long term." A fixed Test, the prosecution alleges, would ultimately have cost £1m. The jury saw photographs of the moment the journalist, posing as a businessman seeking to set up a cricket tournament, handed Majeed £10,000 allegedly in return for a player bowling a no ball. This Jafferjee described as "a 'tester' of proof in Majeed's ability to arrange for [no balls] to happen." Later, said the prosecution, Majeed demanded a £150,000 deposit, saying: "That is for your trust. For me to pay my six boys, and to say we are working for a new party … and they give me the authority. After that, I can give you every result." Asif will say it was "chance" that he bowled a no ball at the appointed time, Butt that this no ball and the two bowled by Amir were a set of "freakish occurrences". The case continues. 