 6.34pm: Lancashire's last outright championship win, in 1934, came at a time of worldwide depression, observes David Hopps. Now they have added another one 77 years later as the world again struggles to avoid financial chaos. There is something about a Great Depression that cheers up Lancashire. That and the chance to play their home games on an outground at Aigburth. Lancashire are the side that followers of other counties can never quite remember. The only international in the ranks of the Red Rose as they defeated Somerset by eight wickets with five overs to spare was Glen Chapple, who won a solitary ODI cap against Ireland five years ago. Chapple was 37 and playing with a strained hamstring that would have sidelined lesser men. The rest of Lancashire's have short, traditional English names: Smith, Brown, Croft, Hogg. They are players who have never known stardom and perhaps never will. They seem almost interchangeable. But tonight they are identified by an achievement that few expected – some famous Lancastrians of another era included. In 1934, Lancashire's cotton industry was showing signs of decline and the Manchester Guardian was financially stricken. Sir Neville Cardus wrote early that season: "None of us cares twopence about the Championship, certainly not this year, when it is obvious Lancashire cannot possibly win it!" Cardus, to his delight, was proved wrong as Lancashire took the title against Surrey at The Oval. Expectations were not much higher this year in an era of instant communications that is ideally suited to the gradual climax of the final day of a championship season. But under Moores's guidance, Lancashire have become efficient, orderly and have achieved every inch of their potential. For the second successive season, the championship climax was a thrilling one, the story unfolding over hours: on TV and radio commentary, on Twitter, and on this very blog. Would Cardus have taken to blogging? Surely he would have enjoyed the freedom to switch from cricket to music in mid-sentence. Sky TV were stuck with Warwickshire, stymied at the last by stout, day-long blocking by Hampshire on a docile Rose Bowl pitch. How we yearned for them to switch to Taunton, but they dared not follow the news, fearing a lack of camera angles and commentators, coverage unfit for the HD age. LD would have sufficed. BBC Radio were at Taunton, where Vic Marks's dulcet tones calmed Lancashire's nerves. On Twitter we awaited a tweet from Kevin Pietersen that never came, heralding Peter Moores as the finest coach in the county game, a coach who had kept his dignity when Pietersen rubbished his reputation and cost him his England job and whose success would now be warmly received. On this blog, comments came from Shanghai, Ottawa and other far-flung places. One Lancashire fan admitted to being on his "fourth vodka and tonic" in no time at all, another railed at a 5pm meeting that meant he would miss the final moment. In more ways than ever, people caught that moment. The county championship is not quite dead yet. 5.34pm: Stay here for David Hopps's verdict on the final day of the championship. He'll be filing shortly. 5.13pm: And they've done it!!! Lancashire win the County Championship for the first time in 77 years.  5.02pm: Metters has just taken two wickets in two balls, bowling Sean Ervine and then having Michael Bates plumb lbw first ball, writes Paul Weaver. But it's all too late I'm afraid, for Bears supporters. Hampshire's lead has just gone to 158 and the captains will be shaking hands soon. In fact there they go. It's five o'clock and it's all over, with 11 overs remaining. Well played McKenzie. He's unbeaten on 115. Hampshire are down and Warwickshire aren't champions, so it's hankies all round.  Meanwhile at Taunton ... Lancashire require just 3 runs to win the championship for the first time in 77 years. 5.01pm: The match is over at the Rose Bowl between Hampshire and Warwickshire, so at Taunton Lancashire just need to knock of the 30 or so runs required to win the championship. 4.45pm: For those who haven't delved below the line, Andy Wilson is giving frequent updates from Lancashire's title charge at Taunton in the comments section below. 3.54pm: I feel sorry for Warwickshire because the pitch here has just died on them, writes Paul Weaver. But they've also got it wrong tactically, I'm afraid. They have taken the new ball and put three men round the boundary with only three other men in catching positions. One ball from Rankin has just flown between second slip and gully. I know runs are a factor but it's new ball or bust for Warwickshire and wickets are the key. If the new ball doesn't do it for them the game's up. Hampshire are 268 for five, 99 ahead. 2.59pm: Someone on the blog rejigged Sir Alex Ferguson's famous phrase the other day, so apologies for the repetition, writes Andy Wilson from behind the press box sofa at Taunton. But cricket, eh? Bloody hell. Somerset, bless their cotton socks, have resisted with magnificent stubbornness here today, extending their overnight 105 for five to a total of 311. To say that Lancashire nerves were fraying would be the understatement of the season. But their innings was finally brought to an improbable conclusion when Gary Keedy ran out the last man Gemaal Hussain with a direct hit from backward point. The wicket fell at 2.39pm. If it had been 2.40pm, the players would have taken an early tea, and no overs would have been removed from the day's allocation. As it is, there have been 10 minutes between innings, and they're out again now for 21 minutes until tea, then another hour afterwards before the minimum of 16 overs have to be bowled in the last hour. So the minimum of 28 overs remaining in the day's allocation is an irrelevance. Lancashire will have more than that to make the 211 they need. Say four before tea, another 14 in the next hour, and that 16 in the last hour. So that would be 34 overs to make 211. Not a formality. Somerset have started with four fielders on the boundary, and made a fielding change after the first ball. It is a good job that we have two such experienced and no-nonsense umpires as Peter Willey and George Sharp here to ensure fair play. Somerset really don't like Lancashire, after what happened last year, and a few players are already facing disciplinary trouble after previous incidents in this feisty contest. Cricket, bloody hell. By the way a quick word for Peter Trego and Murali Kartik. But only a quick one. Lancs are 5-0 off Steve Kirby's first over, which took five minutes. 2.58pm: Middlesex are confirmed as Division Two champions despite a nervy chase of 124 at Grace Road, writes Richard Gibson. There was a distinct touch of the Worcestershires about their pursuit but they overcame a deterioration of 57-0 to 90-5 thanks to little cameos from John Simpson and Gareth Berg, the latter finishing the match with 6, 4, 6. Meanwhile, back at Chester-le-Street, the Durham players are sharing a beer. They are toasting a third-placed finish and a share of £87,000 between the first-team squad. I wonder if any of them have considered doubling their money? Because if Lancashire were to lose at Taunton - let's face it, stranger things have happened - that player pool would swell to £175,000 by virtue of them finishing second. 2.19pm: Warwickshire have broken through at last, with Woakes getting Carberry lbw for 111, writes Paul Weaver. It was a marginal decision. The ball may have struck the batsman just outside the line but Warwickshire have had no luck all day and they will feel that they deserved a break. Hampshire are 214 for four, 45 ahead. Clarke has been bowling without a slip, which is a little too defensive. Warwickshire are worried about the runs but wickets must be their priority now. 1.38pm: Despite not losing a wicket in the opening hour of the final day, Worcestershire were defeated by 151 runs a quarter of an hour after lunch, Scott Borthwick wrapping things up with the final three wickets, writes Richard Gibson. It meant the slump specialists had lost eight for 85 today, following seven for 33 on the second evening. Meanwhile, news from Twenty20 champions and Championship wooden-spooners Leicestershire. They have engaged spinners Jigar Naik and Claude Henderson on new two-year contracts. Chief executive Mike Siddall said: "Claude and Jigar are an integral part of the club's bowling attack and their form over the past few seasons has been excellent. Claude's four overs for only 11 runs in the Friends Life t20 final strangled the life out of Somerset and Jigar's consistency in the four-day game has been excellent this season." The pair were comfortably the county's leading two wicket-takers in first-class cricket this summer (Naik 48, Henderson 40 before today) and both averaged over 20 with the bat. 12.46pm: It's lunch here and Warwickshire are starting to look very anxious, writes Paul Weaver. Hampshire are 178 for three, nine runs ahead, having not lost a wicket all morning. Warwickshire have tried all their five bowlers but it didn't work. Carberry and McKenzie added 80 runs in the first hour, off 17 overs. In the second hour they had added 55.There have been little edges here and there but nothing has gone to hand. Just before lunch Metters and the rest of the Warwickshire fielders made a strong appeal for a catch behind. But replays suggested that Carberry's bat had hit the ground and not the ball. Very tense here, though the few Hampshire supporters look totally relaxed. Their relegation fate was sealed yesterday. 12.21pm: Worcestershire's fondness for the dramatic collapse saw them lose four wickets for 26 runs (the first three for none) at Chester-le-Street to completely undermine a positive first hour, writes Richard Gibson. Moeen Ali and Alexei Kervezee nicked off in the same Mitchell Claydon over and Ian Blackwell accounted for James Cameron with one that rushed on to climax the seven-ball slump. Gareth Andrew, visibly troubled by his sore knee, countered with two fours and a six in one over from Blackwell but the left-arm spinner laughed last and pretty loud when Andrew had his off-stump flattened attempting a reverse sweep. With quarter-of-an-hour remaining before lunch, Worcestershire are 177 for six. 11.22am: Worcestershire went out for a team dinner last night to celebrate their against-the-odds survival in Division One, writes Richard Gibson. Today's objective for them is to stave off an 11th defeat of the season and an ignominious statistic - they have already equalled their record number of losses in a season since the County Championship was split in two (they also endured 10 in the relegation campaign of 2009). The Pears have already created one piece of history as no side has previously survived the drop with as many as 10 defeats. In fact, both Surrey and Warwickshire have gone down in the past five seasons having lost only five times apiece. Credit to Daryl Mitchell's team though because they have exploited the 2010 change to the points-scoring system. Ultimately it has been the four sets of 16 points for a win (it was previously 14) that has kept them up. They began the final morning requiring a further 300 runs to beat Durham, who are guaranteed a third-placed finish and a £105,000 bounty regardless of the result here. The in-form James Cameron and Moeen Ali have both found the ropes with cover drives so far. Although Cameron, who hit 98 in the 10-wicket win over Lancashire recently and 74 in the first innings here, survived a supremely confident lbw shout from Graham Onions on 28. His cut for four off Callum Thorp in the next over, however, took Worcestershire into three figures for the loss of two wickets. 11.05am: The Warwickshire boys looked very relaxed this morning, writes Paul Weaver at the Rose Bowl. They must all be bloody good actors, that's all I can say. They are on the verge of a significant achievement here. The championship, if they win it, will have been a terrific team performance. They will feel properly relaxed when they get rid of Neil McKenzie and Michael Carberry. The bottom end of the Hampshire line-up looks a little callow and shouldn't hold up the Warwickshire bowlers for too long. Warwickshire have opened up with a Chris at both ends, the swing of Woakes from the pavilion end and the spin of Metters from the other. Hampshire are 71 for three. 10.35am: Morning all, writes Andy Wilson. Glen Chapple has just led his Lancashire team on to the field to a warm ovation from what feels like a Lancastrian majority on a glorious autumn morning. There was one chant of "Come on Warwick", which may reflect lingering bad feeling that has already been mentioned in the quick-off-the-mark comments below, but I would prefer to put down to a good sense of humour. Chapple has opened the attack, his hamstring continuing to defy medical science, as Lancashire press for a victory that would be their 10th of the season, which would be a record for a team not winning the Championship in the two-division era. They can do nothing else now but enjoy the last day of an admirable and memorable summer. 9.23am: To remind everyone how things stand, here's yesterday's end-of-the-day Division One round-up from Andy Wilson: Only one issue remains unresolved in the First Division. But it is the big one. And it's pretty simple. If Warwickshire beat Hampshire, they are champions, which would be a seriously impressive achievement for a county who struggled against relegation last season, and weren't expected to challenge this year - especially as they had eight points deducted for preparing a poor pitch for their home game against Worcestershire way back when. If Hampshire can bat for most of the day - they're already three wickets down following on, and still 126 behind - they will leave the door ajar for Lancashire, who are also in a strong position against Somerset. Assuming Warwicks and Lancs both win, then Durham will be third and Somerset will take the last slice of LV prize money in fourth. Hampshire and Yorkshire have already been relegated, meaning that Worcestershire have defied most pre-season predictions, and heavy losses in their first six matches, to survive. It's been a good year for the Bears and the Pears. Morning all. Andy Wilson is at Somerset v Lancashire, Richard Gibson is at Durham v Worcestershire and Paul Weaver is at Hampshire v Warickshire. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Watch video highlights here. There are county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two. 