 Viv Richards has expressed his sympathy towards the suspended coach Phil Simmons after describing the West Indies Cricket Board as “rotten”. The WICB last month decided to bar Simmons from the tour of Sri Lanka following his public criticism of selection. Simmons claimed he was blocked from picking the all-rounders Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard for the one-day international leg of the tour, despite support from the chairman of selectors Clive Lloyd. Bravo and Pollard have not played a one-day international since last October’s controversial series against India when Bravo was captain of the squad that prematurely pulled out of the tour amid a pay dispute with the WICB. Richards said: “I always have a sympathy for any individual who is up against an establishment who have been a little iffy at times. I would have certain sympathies for him.” Simmons took over as coach earlier this year, overseeing a 1-1 draw against England in his first Test series in charge, but has since seen the West Indies fail to qualify for the Champions Trophy for the first time. Richards agreed the absence of key players had contributed to that but, while the 63-year-old has lamented the WICB’s role, he is wary of isolating it as the root of the problem. Richards famously never lost a Test series as West Indies captain but suggested his all-conquering team of the 1980s encountered the same sort of off-field problems as the current team. He said: “When you have a board that have had various issues off the field – it is pretty hard to deal with. I would have had the same sort of problems – it’s just some rotten administration. “The team that we had then, being a good team on the field and so talented, even though we had those issues off the field – winning I think helped to eradicate all that stuff. That’s not happening today.” Last week another former West Indies captain, Garfield Sobers, lamented the decline of Caribbean cricket during an emotional speech. He questioned the loyalty of modern players in an era where the riches of the Indian Premier League have been embraced before the West Indies team. Richards said: “Sometimes guys make decisions for themselves. Making those decisions you stick by them, I guess.” Despite cricket in the West Indies being held back by a host of problems, Richards remains hopeful the world-beating years of the 1970s and 1980s can be rediscovered. Yet he rubbished calls for the island nations that make up the team to break away on their own and called on the governing body to make some tough decisions. He said: “Maybe that’s because of the frustration that people feel. People are frustrated. They are the people who remember the wonderful times and they want to rekindle that sort of spirit. “Seeing some of the things that have played out is frustrating and I guess everyone is entitled to their opinion, but I still believe we can be a united force in order for us to compete – as long as the folks who administer can be united. That would send such a huge message which I think would filter, hopefully, to the right places. It is going to take a lot of hard work.” 