 On Bowlers' Street, word gets around pretty quickly. That bloke, despite more than 20 Test centuries, doesn't like the short ball into the ribs. The other one, the elegant left-hander, keeps driving away from the body. With video analysis now such a major part of every team's preparation, the gossip is incessant; the scrutiny of each batsman's technique is never-ending. Some, like Sachin Tendulkar, never get found out. They have their lean trots and troughs when retirement seems the easy option, but there's no single weakness that can be pinpointed and ruthlessly exposed. Each time a so-called chink has been discovered, Tendulkar has adapted his game accordingly. To make almost 500 runs in Australia when in sight of his 35th birthday was testament to the zealous nature of his preparation, further proof that true genius leaves nothing to chance. Others are not so fortunate. Vinod Kambli, his old schoolmate and friend, made a superb start to his Test career, but never quite recovered from the barrage of bouncers unleashed by an unforgiving West Indies pace attack. Unlike Steve Waugh or Sourav Ganguly, who retooled their games to mask short-ball frailties, Kambli could never escape the stigma. For Virender Sehwag, reality bit in the early months of 2006, a year that started with a breathtaking 247-ball 254 against Pakistan in Lahore. The Pakistani bowlers adjusted their length and line in the two subsequent Tests, and Sehwag barely made a run as India crashed to a series defeat. When they returned home, Sehwag found that the English bowlers had been watching the highlights reels diligently. Steve Harmison and friends cleverly combined the short ball directed at the ribcage with a ball that darted back sharply from outside off stump. Unsure for the first time in his career, Sehwag struggled through the series, making just one half-century. By the time India went to South Africa at the end of the year, the blip had become a crisis and after just 45 runs in the first two Tests, he was shunted down the order, with Dinesh Karthik going up to open alongside Wasim Jaffer. Batting at No7, Sehwag made 40 in rapid time before an injudicious shot sparked an Indian collapse, and was then bizarrely asked to open the second innings. The result was entirely predictable, a slashed four followed by a thick outside edge. With Indian cricket undergoing its Night of the Long Knives after the World Cup debacle, Sehwag was one of the scapegoats. A Test career that had hinted at greatness - 11 centuries in his first 40 Tests - was well and truly on the skids when he didn't find a place in the squad for the tour of England. Jaffer and Karthik were an integral part of India's success there, and when the domestic season opened with a string of underwhelming scores, it seemed certain that Sehwag would get no closer to Australia than his living-room couch. Fortunately for him, he had a fan in Anil Kumble, who remained convinced that Sehwag's instinctive shot-making could be the difference between victory and abject surrender against the world champions. So, despite not even making the provisional squad, he was a shock inclusion in the final 16, ahead of a string of batsmen who had pushed their cases with piles of runs in the Ranji Trophy. What followed is now common knowledge. At the MCG, where Sehwag had eviscerated the Australians over five hours on Boxing Day in 2003, Yuvraj Singh looked like a man on sedatives. He was little better in Sydney, and after the outcry over umpiring and the spirit of cricket had died down a little, Najafgarh's finest was informed that he would be donning the India cap after a year's absence. With two crucial wickets and 72 runs, Sehwag more than justified Kumble's faith as India scripted perhaps its most remarkable overseas victory in Perth. And though they ran out of steam in Adelaide, Sehwag announced his return to the opening throne that he had abdicated with a glorious second-innings century. Unlike the MCG epic where he slammed the ball at will, this was a much more restrained affair, against a quality attack that probed away patiently. At Adelaide, and again in Chennai last week during that chanceless 319 during the first Test against South Africa, his greatest gift was as easy to spot as the pole star in the night sky. Bowl Sehwag a bad ball, and you may as well signal four right away. Others miss out from time to time, he doesn't. Whether it's the crunch through cover, the flail behind or over point or the upper cut down to third man, the ball disappears. Unlike some others who will dissect a favourite innings ball-by-ball, Sehwag is a man of few words. When I spoke to him on Tuesday morning, he called his second triple-century his best because "it was bloody hot in Chennai, and it's hard to keep your concentration". That he didn't slip up even once should worry South Africa much more than the fact that his strike-rate was befitting of an IPL game. After a year in the wilderness, the buccaneer is back, with a keener awareness of how much the game means to him. Sehwag may have managed only six during India's batting capitulation in the second Test against South Africa this morning, but it could yet be a very long summer for opening bowlers that cross his path. 