 However many championship centuries Joe Denly goes on to score in his career - and, given his obvious talent and the fact this is only his first full season, that should be many - very few are likely to give him more reason to be proud than his first. On a pitch on which, judging by the fact that 16 wickets fell, every other batsman found the bowling unplayable, the 21-year-old played Hampshire's pair of Australians, Stuart Clark and Shane Warne, superbly to become the first Kent opener to carry his bat for four years. When the last man, Simon Cook, was caught behind sparring brainlessly at an ordinary delivery from Chris Tremlett with only a single needed to register a batting point, Denly was 115 not out off 189 deliveries, 15 of which he had hit for four. He might have been caught at mid-off on 12 if Michael Carberry had been a bit quicker off the mark, and there was a nervous edge or two low through the gully area when he moved into the nineties, but otherwise he did not give a chance. It was a remarkable effort, made to look even more so by the carnage at the other end and, later on, during the Hampshire reply. It might also suggest to the pitch inspector that if a batsman possessed of sound technique, guts and patience could make runs on this track, perhaps it was not as bad as the efforts of those who did not demonstrate any of those qualities might have suggested. It was as well for Kent that Denly did not follow the example of his captain. Having won the toss and chosen to bat, Robert Key was lbw flicking lazily across the line at his second delivery. Then, two balls after having been dropped by Warne driving at Clark, Martin van Jaarsveld obligingly repeated the shot to allow Warne to redeem himself and the tone was set. Only James Tredwell seemed prepared to really get his head down, adding 53 with Denly for the ninth wicket before getting overexcited and, as a result, bowled by Warne. The Hampshire batsmen continued the procession, slumping at one stage to 85 for six. John Crawley, who might have replicated Denly's effort, edged Cook to second slip where Van Jaarsveld took a fine catch to end his innings at 16. 