 Ireland's cricketers have suffered the worst ever defeat in a one-day international, losing by 290 runs to New Zealand in Aberdeen. After the fierce intensity of their series against England, the Black Caps were able to stroll to their highest ever one-day total of 402 for 2, including an opening stand of 274 runs between Brendon McCullum and James Marshall. Three days after completing a 3-1 success over the English, Daniel Vettori's men proved far too strong for a makeshift Irish outfit in the opening game of a Triangular tournament which also involves Scotland. Their emphatic win at Mannofield was the biggest margin of victory in the history of one-day international cricket, surpassing India's 257-run romp against Bermuda at last year's World Cup. McCullum led the way with a blistering knock of 166 from just 141 deliveries. His first ODI century included 11 boundaries and 10 sixes. Marshall, a peripheral figure against England, made the most of his opportunity by also reaching three figures. Ireland took until the 43rd over to enjoy their first success when McCullum, attempting another clearance, was safely held on the cover boundary by Ryan Haire off the bowling of Phil Eaglestone. McCullum's departure brought little respite as Ross Taylor set about an increasingly ragged Irish attack with a venomous onslaught which saw him race to an unbeaten 59 from only 24 ball, with one of his four sixes comfortably clearing the pavilion on its way out of the ground. There was one further consolation for Ireland when Marshall skied a catch to wicketkeeper Gary Wilson off Reinhardt Strydom in the final over. However, the suffering was to continue for Ireland as an abject batting display saw them routed for just 112. Openers Strydom and Wilson looked in little difficulty in moving to 27 without loss off four overs. However, when Strydom was bowled by Tim Southee in the next over the rot quickly set in, with wickets falling at regular intervals. Southee and Michael Mason claimed three wickets apiece while only some lusty hitting from tail-ender Peter Connell, who top-scored with 22 not out, ensured Ireland hoisted their tally above the 100 mark. 