Hampshire finished day one at Warwickshire on 189-8, with 21 overs lost to bad light, while Nottinghshire put on 446 before their visitors Surrey closed on 7-0 
 Mike Selvey From the press box we can see the clouds gathering, dark, menacing and full of rain. The covers came on at a quarter past five as the players left the field, and there will be no more play you would reckon, so 21 overs lost. But it has been a good recovery for Hampshire from the depths of 87 for seven shortly after lunch, to 189 for eight. For this they must thank Ryan McLaren, who is 84 not out, an innings containing some robust driving in particular, and a brace of unlikely half century partnerships with Reece Topley, who made 15, his highest first class score, and an unbroken one with James Tomlinson, who has 15. Warwickshire will not be happy that they were unable to capitlise on the excellent bowling of Keith Barker, who took five of the first six wickets to fall, their attempts to take the wickets of the tail by hitting the middle of the pitch not bringing the dividends they would like. 
 Ali Martin Run-soaked afternoon session at Trent Bridge with Nottinghamshire pressing home their strong start in the morning to reach tea 315 for five - they were 119 for two at lunch - thanks to Steven Mullaney’s exhibition in cover-driving for his 113 from 114 balls, and Riki Wessels’ attacking 81 from 83. Surrey had started brightly, with Tom Curran’s second wicket ending a scratchy 20 from Brendan Taylor caught at slip. But two speedy partnerships made it the home side’s session and then some, with Wessels adding 54 at a run a ball with Mullaney for the fourth wicket - the opener eventually perishing caught behind off an inside edge that gave Ravi Rampaul his first Surrey wicket - before a stand of 107 with Samit Patel, in 18.5 overs. Rampaul has looked a man lacking match practice, struggling with both his line and no balls - his second bringing up the Notts 300 and a third the 100 partnership - but somehow the West Indian has two wickets, with Wessels edging behind shortly before the tea break.  Patel was a touch troubled by Mark Footitt early on - his six in the scorebook was a top-edge over the keeper - but has grown in confidence and sits unbeaten on 38, with new man Chris Read to resume alongside him on five. 
 Mike Selvey A much better session from Hampshire has seen them recover from 66 for 6 at lunch and 87 for 7 shortly after, to 165 for 8 at tea. For this they have to thank Ryan McLaren who has batted with robust good sense for an unbeaten 71, and some unexpected diligence from Reece Topley. Topley, with a career average of 2.8 and a highest first class score of 12, came in at nine, and made 15 of an eighth wicket stand of 51 before he was yorked by Chris Woakes. Play is being viewed from the big new media centre in the Hilton Hotel, at the north end of the ground, by the way. 
 Ali Martin The first hundred of the championship season goes to Nottinghamshire opener Steven Mullaney, who brings up three figures with the shot that has been the hallmark of his innings - a gloriously spanked cover drive for four off Ravi Rampaul. Celebrates with big fist pump and to some hearty applause from a decent crowd here at Trent Bridge. It took him to 103* from 102 balls, 17 fours. Currently 110* now, with Notts 190 for three in the 42nd. Surrey elected to field, remember. 
 First championship hundred of the season goes to Nottinghamshire's Steven Mullaney ... 103* from 102 balls, brought up with a cover drive 
 Ali Martin A fine spell from the Pavilion End after lunch has seen Tom Curran rewarded with the wicket of Brendan Taylor, caught at slip for 20. The Zimbabwean didn’t look entirely comfortable, with Kumar Sangakkara holding on at first slip - very slow and simple pouch to the midriff. Mullaney looking good up t’other end, 85 not out. Nottinghamshire 147 for 3 (34.3 ov). 
 Ali Martin Lunch here at the splendidly sunny Trent Bridge and Nottinghamshire will feel reasonably happy about life at 119 for two from 27 overs, after Surrey bypassed the coin toss and took the option to bowl first. Opener Steven Mullaney has cut and driven his way to a bright and breezy unbeaten 71 from 76 balls, with 13 fours flying from his flashing blade (well, a couple may have been thick edges to third man). Surrey’s Tom Curran picked up his 100th first-class wicket when he struck first, teasing an edge to slip from Greg Smith, with winter signing Mark Footitt then trapping Michael Lumb lbw for 24 for the second breakthrough. Mullaney brought up the hundred for Notts with a glorious cut four off the unthreatening Ravi Rampaul and has looked in generally good order. Left-armer Footitt gave Brendan Taylor a decent test outside off stump early and had one healthy lbw shout but the Zimbabwean will resume with Mullaney this afternoon on six not out. 
 Mike Selvey First session of the county season done and Hampshire have already been given a lesson in what to expect. 66 for six is the outcome of their morning’s work. All the real damage has come from Keith Barker, who has bowled nicely, swung the ball away from the left handers, with the help of a biffing cross breeze, and has five of the wickets at a cost of 27. The other wicket, that of James Vince, went to Boyd Rankin, the catch taken at cover. There has been no real venom in the pitch though, aside from a little seam movement of a kind that ought to be expected at this time of year. 
 Ali Martin Second wicket of a sparky morning at Trent Bridge and it’s a first in Surrey, err, colours for Mark Footitt who has Michael Lumb lbw. Very full delivery and Lumb played all around it, trudging off with his account for the season 24 runs to the good. At the other end, Steven Mullaney has just moved to an attacking half-century when he clipped Ravi Rampaul* through mid-wicket for four. A second boundary in the over, down to third man, sees him 55 from 51 balls. Nottinghamshire 91 for two after 18.1 overs. *it wasn’t a case of numerous cable-knits. PS. Bit of gossip here too, with word that Surrey are looking into staging an end of season Twenty20 friendly against CPL team the Jamaica Tallawahs at the Oval. Interesting. 
 Mike Selvey A tricky April start for Hampshire as Keith Barker, bowling his left arm with the benefit of a stiffish left to right cross breeze, removed Michael Carberry, Tom Alsop and Will Smith in an opening spell of 6-2-12-3. There has been plenty of movement in the air although nothing extravagant off the pitch. Hampshire have consolidated a little since then, with their England T20 returnees James Vince and Liam Dawson at the crease. 38 for 3 is the latest from 15 overs. 
 Ali Martin First wicket at Trent Bridge in the seventh over as Greg Smith can’t resist one outside off stump from Tom Curran and tickles the ball to Kumar Sangakkara to first slip for a simple catch at ankle height. In comes Michael Lumb at No3, Notts 43 for one after seven overs. The sixth over saw Steven Mullaney take Mark Footitt for 18, albeit with two fours through the vacant fourth slip area. Footitt, it must be said, is getting some lovely shape on the ball into the right-handers. As an aside, mildly taken aback by Ravi Rampaul’s body shape - hoping it’s numerous cable-knits jumpers... That was the 100th FC wicket for @_TC59 pic.twitter.com/tmzNIxwrlj 
 Over at the County Ground, Alastair Cook is playing for Essex, but as their opponents Gloucestershire are batting the England skipper will be doing most of his work with his hands thrust deep into his pockets at slip. Gloucestershire are 22-0 after seven overs. 
 Mike Selvey The wind is whistling across Ageas Bowl. A chill to it as well. Ice scraped from the car first thing. This is hands-in-pockets, trouser-flapping cricket weather, the sort where the last thing a fielder wants is a new ball screamer at slip. Warwickshire, whom many consider title contenders, especially if Ian Bell is there to captain throughout the season, opted to field first against Hampshire. My view is that the new rule is unfair to home sides rather than evening things up. Pitches at this time of year are invariably cold and damp and most teams would want to have first use with the ball. Reece Topley is making his Hampshire debut. 
 Ali Martin Morning all from a very sunny Trent Bridge - blue skies, the odd cloud but chilly - and hope everyone wintered well. The news from the middle is that Surrey captain Gareth Batty has taken up the option to bowl first, with NO TOSS taking place. Opposite number Chris Read says he is “not too displeased”. Interesting to see Kolpak signing Ravi Rampaul nudge out Matt Dunn in the Surrey team, for his first first-class match in nearly three years. There’s a debut for left-armer Mark Footitt of course. Nottinghamshire are without James Taylor (illness), Alex Hales and Stuart Broad (both rested) and Luke Wood is missing out from the squad. The pitch looks good, albeit with a tinge of emerald that prompted Batty’s decision. The summer starts here. Notts: Mullaney, Smith, Lumb, Taylor, Wessels, Patel, Read (c & wkt), Hutton, Ball, Bird, Gurney Surrey: Burns, Harinath, Sangakkara, Davies, Roy, Foakes (wk), Batty, S Curran, T Curran, Footitt, Rampaul 
 The captain of the away team in championship matches can now cancel the tossand opt simply to bowl first in a new trial. Or if they want to “have a bat”, to use the traditional captain’s argot, the toss goes ahead as normal and they see how the coin comes down. The hope is that counties will be less inclined to produce seam-friendly “result” pitches, giving spinners more of a chance later in the game and fewer rewards for medium-pacers exploiting a green top. 
 Mike and Ali will be here with some updates shortly. Here are the fixtures for the first day of the league: 