 I blame the state of our garage for the state of Maurice Tate's grave actually. When I was clearing the mountain of clutter in the garage a few weeks ago I came across a copy of Maurice's biography, by the late Gerald Brodribb, on the floor. It had spilled out of a box of old cricket books dating back decades to the days when, in happy, cricket-playing bachelorhood, I used to collect them. How sad was that? I hadn't thought of Maurice Tate for 30 years (who has?) but when clearing a garage any excuse is a good one, so I perched down on a box to read. I think it is Maurice's sunny character that is most appealing: the dust-jacket cover of the biography shows him leaning out of a train carriage window, trilby in one hand, pipe in the other, smiling expectantly. It was actually a picture snapped as he left to join the Bodyline tour of Australia in 1932 and was evidently taken at the same time as the picture that accompanied my article about him in the Guardian's sports pages a couple of weeks later. But I had forgotten that not only was his story extraordinary but that he was also a wonderful cricketer. How many county trundlers change their whole bowling style (from off-spin to medium-fast seam in Maurice's case) at the age of 27 after they have been playing for nearly 10 years and then go on to carry the England (and Sussex) bowling attacks for the next 15 years? In Maurice's case, he was also a pretty good batsman: 23 first-class centuries, including one in a Test, a top score of 203 – admittedly before he became a seamer – all scored at a fast rate. I had forgotten all this, of course, because he stopped playing nearly 20 years before I was born and died when I was two, so I never saw him play. Brodribb's biography is full of extraordinary statistics but what shines through is the geniality of the man in those more innocent, less ugly days: his grin, his conspiratorial muttered asides behind the back of his hand, the sheer relish for playing and the utter lack of arrogance or preciousness are marvellously appealing. In those days sports writing did not dwell on the dark side of the game but even so all the anecdotes about Maurice are sunny ones and he was clearly loved and admired way beyond Hove – even in Australia. The opinions of batsmen such as Jack Hobbs and Don Bradman that he was one of the very best bowlers they ever played against is not to be dismissed either. So it was all this that led me one dank early October day to visit Wadhurst – a Sussex village about 10 miles away from where I live – on a quiet personal pilgrimage to have a drink at Maurice's former pub, The Greyhound, where he died in an upstairs bedroom and to see the site of his burial a few hundred yards away in the local churchyard. The first disappointment was the pub. No lunchtime food on a Monday but also just the barest notice of what must have been its most famous landlord: a small frame of yellow photocopies of newspaper obituaries in a far corner, with no real indication for the casual visitor why Tate should be memorialised there. Then I went across the high street to the church and began wandering around to find his grave. There was no obvious notice and the whole place was overgrown, except for a few of the newer graves. It took me half an hour: Maurice's grave, 100 yards or more back from the church, lost amid several rows of more or less forgotten graves, was dilapidated and overgrown with weeds. It was hard to read the gravestone for the discolouration and the stone itself was leaning at an angle, though it was definitely his. It looked as though the last time anyone had been there was when his wife Kathleen had joined him in 1979, nearly 23 years after his death. That was when the glimmer of an article occurred to me. It felt good to remind people of Maurice's astonishing feats (and large feet) and it was sad and salutary to think of the neglected grave of one of the most celebrated sports stars of his day. I wondered whether the likes of Stuart Broad and James Anderson had ever heard of him? The response was extraordinary. Sussex supporters (and others) were immediately alerted. I sent the article to the club, vaguely wondering whether they might like to chip in a few quid to restore the grave of the man recently voted Sussex's greatest cricketer and I received an email back from the club's press office ("interesting") but no acknowledgement or reply from its chief executive. The curator of the club's archives was more forthcoming but his committee would not commit to doing anything – they had higher priorities, understandably – and anyway, once they started renovating the graves of old cricketers, where would they stop? The grave of Sir C Aubrey Smith, the Victorian Sussex bowler ("Round-the-Corner Smith") who went on to become a Hollywood star playing old British buffers opposite the likes of Shirley Temple in the 1930s, also needs doing up apparently: his ashes ended up in Portslade of all places. But on the Sussex fans' website discussion bubbled. Only one was critical, suggesting that I somehow wanted to turn the grave into a shrine. Old newsreel film of Maurice bowling was posted and discussed. Several volunteered to mount a rescue expedition to Wadhurst. But first they wanted to contact any surviving members of the Tate family to see if they would mind the grave being interfered with. This poses a problem: Maurice's children would be in their late 70s and 80s now (his youngest was born just after Maurice left for the Bodyline tour, so would be 78) and the county has not been in touch with them for years. Its records are currently in storage at Hove while the ground is redeveloped this winter, so it cannot even find the last address it had for the family. Brodribb's book, published in 1976, mentions that one son had become a hotel manager in the West Country but gives no further clue. It is fair to ask the family's wishes but, given the neglected state of the grave, it is hard to imagine that they have paid much attention to it for many years themselves or that they would mind too much if it was repaired. While all this discussion was going on, a new letter and new photographs popped into the Guardian's letters editor's inbox: Robert Harrison and his son, having seen the article, had taken the matter into their own hands, gone down to Wadhurst and tidied up the grave on their own initiative: cut the grass, planted cyclamens, and cleaned the gravestone so that its inscription is once more visible. I don't know when I have been more heart-warmed by the outcome of an article and the spirit shown by its readers. Journalists can often be destructive and carping but on this occasion nothing but good seems to have come out of the piece's publication and Maurice Tate's memory has been recalled and honoured in a gentle, quiet, very English way. Now I suppose I'd better get back to clearing out the garage. 