 Shortly before three o'clock yesterday afternoon, Sajid Mahmood, a second-generation Pakistani and a young Sikh by the name of Panesar, reluctant and slightly self-conscious the pair of them, were pushed to the fore by their colleagues and together led the England side from the field and into the celebratory dressing room. Between them they had taken seven Pakistan wickets and bowled England to an emphatic 167-run win in the third Test and, with an unassailable 2-0 lead, the series. By any standard this was a memorable day for the future of multiculturalism in modern Britain. Pakistan simply subsided, their target of 323 never a serious consideration. Only Younis Khan flourished but his 41 was cut off by what may be viewed as the finest delivery that Panesar has sent down in his life. Later Inzamam-ul-Haq made 37 with outrageous ease but, unable to come in until the fall of the fifth wicket because of time spent off the field the previous day, and lacking any semblance of staunch support, it was only going to be in a losing cause. On what should have been a day of attrition and patience, England needed just under 48 overs to bowl Pakistan out for 155. This England is an inclusive side - one for all and all for one - and the delight in the success of the two young bowlers was palpable. Mahmood, in particular, has had a rough time of it this season in his effort to establish himself as a credible alternative to the injured Simon Jones, suffering embarrassingly at the hands of the ruthless Sri Lanka batsmen in the one-day series, wicketless and largely ignored in the last Test at Old Trafford. His rhythm has been in tatters, the propensity for his right wrist to contort into strange positions a challenge to any semblance of consistency or accuracy. He has pace though, plenty of it, and yesterday, striding smoothly down from the Kirkstall Lane end - running down a slope can cause a bowler to overstride but it can rein them in, too - the other ingredients of his game came together in a compelling performance that brought him four wickets for 22 runs. At the other end, a young man surely was securing his cricket future and status as a national hero. Panesar's reputation is being matched by deeds and it is no exaggeration to say he is now arguably the best - certainly the most reliable - bowler in the England side and has yet to put in a performance that is any way close to being described as substandard. Three for 39 was his reward yesterday from almost 18 unrelenting overs of high-class spin, giving him six of 16 wickets to fall to England bowlers on a strip regarded as a graveyard for slow bowlers. That, for the statistically minded, is three times the number taken by England spinners in total in the last decade, and one of those went to Michael Atherton. The coach Duncan Fletcher is seeking affirmation from Panesar that he can deliver quality in all conditions, and, short of bowling on a flat Adelaide pitch in 100C heat - which might well be his lot in a few months - he has now given that. What has become apparent is that Panesar offers a package that goes beyond the normal Fletcher ideal of all-round cricketing excellence. In difficult circumstances he will lend control: his economy rate of well under three runs per over is remarkable in these days of fast scoring. When there is something in the pitch, his eyes bulge and he smells blood. He will not burn out. Even the curmudgeonly, pragmatic coach, who in the past year, but for other factors, might have played each of Ian Blackwell, Shaun Udal and Jamie Dalrymple rather than Panesar, whose perceived deficiency with the bat and in the field were seen as insurmountable obstacles, must now realise he has a very special cricketer on his hands. Panesar has taken 31 wickets in nine Tests and has consistently, and classically, dismissed the finest players of spin in the game. Yesterday, fittingly it seemed, he finished the match by luring Inzamam down the pitch so that the returning wicketkeeper Chris Read, a fellow who has done everything asked of him in this match, could deftly remove the bails. Somehow symbolic that. Panesar's sublime moment had arrived earlier, however, shortly after lunch. At that stage, Pakistan's chances of an unlikely victory had long since disappeared with the crass run-out of Mohammad Yousuf - one of four such calamities for Pakistan in the game - so that his third-wicket stand with Younis Khan produced 347 runs fewer than their record-breaking effort in the first innings. But Younis, brilliant centurion then, is in stunning form and had made 41 defiant runs in the second innings when Panesar accounted for him and all but won the game for his side. Panesar manages to get considerable rotation on the ball and, from round the wicket and aided by a flag-snapping breeze from left to right, he was gaining some sharp indrift to the right-hander. This ball had flight on it, too, tantalising and drawing Younis forward so that, in following the dip, he exposed his off stump. It had opened the door and, pitching on leg stump, the ball spun past the outside edge of Younis's bat and gently removed the off bail. The repercussions of that delivery are highly likely to reverberate through the game. New people's favourite As the wickets fell at Headingley yesterday so too did the odds on Monty Panesar winning the 2006 BBC Sports Personality Of The Year. England's new cricket hero, who took three wickets as Pakistan crumbled, is now the 5-2 favourite to win the title. With no outstanding candidate for the honour this year, the spinner has leapt ahead of the likes of David Walliams (11-4), Steven Gerrard (100-30) and Jenson Button (7-1). 