 Preamble Hello. England collapsed from 122 for 1 to 197 all out and will be losing this match shortly - although only by four wickets, and with 7.4 overs to spare, on a seriously turgid surface. Meanwhile, I may have made a significant medical breakthrough in the mid-innings break - and not only because I've realised that man can drink two cans of Relentless on the bounce and still feel his legs. I've had a thought: why don't do they show amnesiacs footage of England collapses to ensure an instant recovery? After enduring today's nonsense I can think of nothing - not waking up with a bursting head and an empty wallet, not having my head flushed down a toilet by Karl Wilson, not fumbling my words in front of a girl who, while irrefutably pretty, is not even beautiful and really shouldn't provoke such a lamentable attempt at human contact, not even listening to a loop of Mark Corrigan's voice - that is better designed to remind me exactly who I am and what a sorry fiasco my life has been. While I only had my head flushed down the toilet between 1989 and 1991, and the hangovers didn't start until around my fourth birthday, and Peep Show didn't hit our screens until 2003, an England collapse has been there year-in, year-out. It's foolproof. Ish. Or just foolish. Whatever, the players are back on. 1st over: Australia 5-0 (chasing 198; Gilchrist 1, Watson 4) I reckon Australia will kitchen-sink this against the new ball and then try and nudge and nurdle their way to victory when life gets more difficult. If they don't - if they're, say, 60 for 2 after 20 - I think England will win. Anyway, Australia get off to a fine start with FIVE! from Anderson's first over. They were helped by a pitiful misfield from Mopnty Panesar at fine leg, which turned one into four. "Why does everyone still treat Flintoff as if he's some sort of batting god when he comes to the crease?" says Kathy Stodart. "He hasn't been able to hit anything to save himself for months and months. He gets a very gentle ride from the Pommy press - are you worried you might hurt his big manly feelings and he'll go and change careers or something?" There is absolutely an element of that, and his batting has been rubbish for a long time (more telling than the average is the drop in strike-rate, especially in Tests), but of course he is so potentially devastating that England always expects. 2nd over: Australia 11-0 (chasing 198; Gilchrist 6, Watson 4) Jon Lewis opens the bowling at the other end with Nixon up to the stumps - wearing a gumshield as well - for his gentle cutters, and one entirely routine delivery to the left-hander prompts Nixon to bark: 'Gorgeous, pal, gorgeous'. Then Gilchrist edges a no-ball for four to continue Australia's good start. Clearly Lewis has replaced Plunkett as the second main seamer and, while that makes sense given the assumption of the conditions, I do think Plunkett deserved a chance to carry on where he left off in Australia. In fact it almost reminds of Dean Headley being SCANDALOUSLY dropped in 1999 on the basis of county form when his previous two Tests had brought 15 wickets (or thereabouts) in Australia. I haven't forgotten, Grav. "I think England are being very cunning here," says Andrew Gledhill. "We are lulling the Aussies into thinking that Tait is actually a good one day bowler and picking him. We shall then chuckle as we slap him round every part of the ground and mock his pathetic fielding in our march to the final - you heard it here first!" And last!!!!!! 3rd over: Australia 15-0 (chasing 198; Gilchrist 7, Watson 4) No emails but plenty of input from Paul Nixon, who has called Gilchrist a "bunny". Which really is rich. 4th over: Australia 23-0 (chasing 198) Lewis is bowling a heap of no-balls, so many that Bob Willis has wheeled out Ian Botham's "The line belongs to the umpire" comment. Jesus weeps and Australa cruise along merrily. "How should the Aussies approach this task?" muses Gary Naylor. "Punter should instruct his batters to arrive at the crease with a beer in hand, carefully placing it behind the stumps, then not bother taking a guard. He could appear with just the front pad, in shorts, wearing a Trinny Posse T-shirt. It would be more fun for everyone." I thought it was the Trini posse, unless he has a thing for the lady of & Susannah fame. She could have a club. A posse. It'd be like Leo DiCaprio's Pussy Posse, only Trinny's Passe String Vest Posse. Maybe not. 5th over: Australia 27-0 (chasing 198) There has been absolutely no swing for Anderson, which is a concern but not a surprise, but his line is good and Watson struggles to get him away in that over. "Rob: the human spirit cannot sustain any more discussion about the Badger's gumshields and what he does or doesn't do with or without them in the privacy of his own home," says Clare Davies. "Do not encourage this strand. I'm begging you." Is that another reason to come to Scotland apart from the free whisky? 6th over: Australia 39-0 (chasing 198) What a shot from Watson, who sizes up a typical off-cutter from Lewis and flicks it imperiously over square-leg for six. Then he drives the next ball exquisitely through extra-cover for four. Lewis, all red face, floppy hair and glorified medium pace, looks like a fop trying to survive in a shouting match in the pub. He is being savaged. 7th over: Australia 43-0 (chasing 198) This has been a decent spell from Anderson, who hasn't been too proud to sweep the shop floor as asked. It's a job he'll probably have to get used to over the next seven weeks. That said, it only takes one overpitched delivery for Watson to clip one crisply up and over midwicket for four. He has 24 from 24 balls and is looking very, very good. 8th over: Australia 49-0 (chasing 198) It's Plunkett for Lewis, which is sensible but also too late, like pulling the lounge curtains just after you've been seen in the buff by half the world standing outside: England's modesty has been well and truly exposed already. Gilchrist edges Plunkett for four and Australia are flying without even looking at, never mind engaging, top gear. Is anyone, anyone at all, out there? I'm dying here! 9th over: Australia 57-0 (chasing 198) Watson is playing a beautiful innings, and in that over from Anderson he walks into one before fizzing it through midwicket with superb timing. Then he swivel-pulls another dismissive boundary. Not since Big Daddy was in his 24-stone pomp has there been so great a temptation to beat one's chest and shout: 'Easy easy easy'. "You accuse me of flirting on the obo?" pouts Clare Davies. "I think this is a case of the pot calling the sosspan vach - my spelling in Welsh is dodgy, but I'm sure you know what I mean!" 10th over: Australia 64-0 (chasing 198) This was always the concern: that, without the ball hooping under lights or zipping off clammy surfaces, England's new-ball attack would be meat and drink. And so it is proving: Plunkett digs one in and is pulled effortlessly for four by Gilchrist. England need to think about this because it's already a concern. This pitch is tortoiseian and they're going at more than a run a ball. I'd like to see them experiment opening the bowling with Flintoff. And bring him on first change. And second change. And bowl at the death. 11th over: Australia 67-0 (chasing 198) The spinner is on already, which is interesting. It'll be Dalrymple rather than Panesar, and he's turning it a good distance from well wide of Watson's off stump. "Gorgeous, gorgeous," says Paul Nixon, coincidentally at the same moment I pulled the 'Blue Steel' face from Zoolander. Three from a decent over. 12th over: Australia 72-0 (chasing 198) It's a double change, with Collingwood replacing Plunkett (that means Flintoff is fourth change, a role I missed out earlier) to cut and dob from wicket to wicket. He will be a crucial bowler throughout this tournament if the pitches are like this. Two from the over. "I'm here," says Sam Mellor. "I just don't email because I fear the wrath of perrenial OBOers Clare Davies and that Naylor character. They're like the Man U and Chelsea of OBO. Money talks, and they clearly have enough not to have to worry about actually having to earn any, so can sit around thinking up witty (sic) comments, while the rest of us toil away trying to make the repayments on our computers." One day people will be saying the same about you, Mellor. You're where Blackburn Rovers were in 1991, where Soze was back in the day before his ass became truly bad, where Northern Uproar were in 1994. And where, mercifully, they stayed. 13th over: Australia 73-0 (chasing 198) One from Dalrymple's second over. The tenor of the game has changed with England's double bowling change, but one suspects it'll be too late, and not because one wanted to refer to oneself as one for possibly the first (and penultimate) time in history. 14th over: Australia 78-0 (chasing 198) As the saying goes: if you want a job done, ask a few people to do it and then realise you should've asked Freddie in the first place. He's on, immediately round the wicket to Gilchrist, who steals a single and gets a bonus run because of some lazy, absent-minded , warm-up match fielding that I'm too lazy to describe, it being a warm-up and all. Then Gilchrist picks one up just short of Dalrymple running in from the fence at midwicket. Here's Gary Naylor. "In the Zidane film, didn't the camera just follow the maestro around the field over the course of a match? Balletic, ethereal, majestic were the apposite terms, I recall. Shouldn't some aspirant Polanski be doing a "Zidane" on Nixon? We might need other adjectives though." Great idea but, whereas Mogwai's languid, brooding majesty was perfect for Zidane, who would soundtrack 'Nixon: A Stone Age Portrait'? Chas N Dave? Lily Allen? 15th over: Australia 86-0 (chasing 198) "Big drift here JD," says Nixon, and within a split-second my train of thought has me in a dark pub injecting a certain whisky into the nearest available vein. Back at the cricket, Gilchrist sweeps Dalrymple with numbing certainty for four. This is an absolute pasting I'm afraid. "It's 'sosban fach'," says Nath Jones, probably taking advantage of my ignorance to slip cuss words into the OBO. "Clare Davies' Welsh is almost as bad as Geraint Jones'." But she knows a lot about free whisky. That's hardly a substitute, is it? 16th over: Australia 89-0 (chasing 198) England are now to use the first of their two PowerPlays, and Flintoff makes the best of a bad job with a thrifty over to Gilchrist. Three from it. 17th over: Australia 94-0 (chasing 198 and getting it with disturbing ease) Plunkett (2-0-11-0) replaces Dalrymple but little happens. The Sopranos' Phil Leotardo has moved off the straight more than the ball in this innings. Gilchrist, looking to go big, does skew one just short of short cover. "Please tell Nath Jones that the soft mutation is not needed and it is Sopsan Fach, ferchissake," says Oliver Thorpe, Madrid, again.  18th over: Australia 97-0 (chasing 198) Watson pulls a really heavy ball from Flintoff just short and then wide of midwicket. Then Flintoff almost sneaks a slower ball through. But there is a weary, resigned air to England's work, and rightly so given the situation. Those heady 10 days in Australia are starting to seem like a delusion before the World Cup has even begun. 19th over: Australia 109-0 (chasing 198) Gilchrist goes to a very accomplished fifty, from 64 balls and with four fours. He celebrates by smearing the next ball, a slower one from Plunkett, over midwicket and out of the stadium, a shot of stunning quality. When the ball is moving, Plunkett is alarmingly hittable, because he has no consistency of line or length. Couldn't they switch the World Cup to Australasia to give us a chance? 20th over: Australia 118-0 (chasing 198) Gilchrist plays his trademark roundhouse cut shot to send Flintoff skimming through point for four. It gets better: Flintoff has a problem with his left ankle. It doesn't look serious but, by the same token, he's not happy. Here's Nath Jones, who is in love. "Got to love the fact that, in Oliver Thorpe's correction of my soft mutation, he's actually written "sopsan", not "sospan". Thorpe, I thought it was "sospan", too, but I checked it with Wikipedia. I wouldn't be surprised if I was wrong, though - I was brought up in the Welsh valleys, where many people can hardly speak English, let alone Welsh." Get a room chaps, please. It's on me. 21st over: Australia 124-0 (chasing 198) With the opposition 118-0 chasing 198, who would you most want to bring on: Garner? Muralitharan? Warne? Ambrose? Larsen? It'll be Saj Mahmood, then, and his first ball is leg-stump filth that Watson helps to fine leg for four with the aid of another imperfect piece of fielding from Panesar. That brings up Watson's fifty, a splendid, authoritative effort from 57 balls that includes six fours and one majestic six. The camera is more interested in Flintoff, who still has the quizzical, pained look of a man who has just emerged bleary-eyed from the cinema having watched Inland Empire and been asked to explain it fully in no more than 10 words or face being emasculated with a butcher's knife. 22nd over: Australia 124-0 (chasing 198) Flintoff is off the field now - as is Vaughan, who was never going to field for the full 50 overs (or should I say 33.2) anyway - so Collingwood is now at the helm, and he immediately brings on Panesar. His first over is classy stuff, including one delivery that hurried past Watson's attempted cut shot. "You and me, Monty. You and me, pal," says Nixon, which is either the first full-blown come-on in a one-day international or a suggestions that Shane Watson may be out stumped sooner rather than later. 23rd over: Australia 139-0 (chasing 198) Fifteen from the over! The fun starts with five wides from Mahmood, which has Bob Willis chuntering about "schoolboy cricket". The next ball is onto leg stump, worked fine by Gilchrist and helped miserably over the boundary by Ed Joyce. After a single, Mahmood adjusts his line immaculately for the right-hander, drifting onto his pads for Watson to time one through midwicket. This is turning into a minor farce, but it's all good stuff because I might be in the Dublin Castle by 9 at this rate. Pete and Carl are sometimes in there! "RE: Q: Who would I like to bring on?" says Rich Perkins. "A: Darryl Hair..." It's a decent joke, to be sure, tarnished only fractionally by our correspondent's inability to spell his trump card's name. WICKET! Australia 140-1 (Watson c Pietersen b Panesar 55) It's almost as if, if you bowl your better bowlers, you'll get wickets: Watson rocks back to chop Panesar behind point, where Pietersen takes a splendid catch diving forward. Lovely innings from Watson, and England's reward is the arrival of Ricky Ponting. 24th over: Australia 140-1 (chasing 198) "Ba$tard," says Clare Davies, throwing a lamp round a room and doing an impersonation of Begbie in the penultimate scene of Trainspotting. "Rob: I can't believe that having ignored all my Kermode references today you have the sheer gall to introduce Lynch's Inland Empire into the equation! I think I'm speechless." Wait till you emerge from the cinema having seen it.  WICKET! Australia 142-2 (Gilchrist c Nixon b Mahmood 72) It rather sums up Mahmood's work so far today that, when he gets a wicket, it comes from a catch down the leg side. It was a really poor delivery, full and inviting the flick to fine leg, but Gilchrist got it too fine and Paul Nixon, diving across to his right, took an excellent two-handed catch. Gilchrist walked, possibly to escape the inevitable Nixon send-off. 25th over: Australia 142-2 (chasing 198) England were 122 for one at this stage. Then it all went a little wrong. 26th over: Australia 144-2 (chasing 198) Ponting, with all the time in the world, plays himself in against the spit of Nixon and the spin of Panesar. He eventually takes a quick single to Bell at point, who throws down the stumps with Ponting comfortably home. No third umpire today, so we've saved 20 seconds there. 27th over: Australia 150-2 (chasing 198) It's spin at both ends, with Dalrymple on for Mahmood (3-0-481-1), and Ponting leans back like a nymphette on a dancefloor to thwack his first ball through extra cover for three. Six risk-free runs from a nothing over. "Would you be happy with the warm-up the Australians have got, Greg?" says Jimmy Adams which, as obvious questions go, is up there with: "Do you, Mark Corrigan, take Big Suze to be your lawful wedded wife?" 28th over: Australia 152-2 (chasing 198) This is splendid stuff from Panesar, albeit more Underwood than Bedi in style. That was a masterful over to Clarke, including one quicker ball that vroomed past the attempted cut shot. Clarke is so desperate to get the oxygen of runs that he takes a risky one to Anderson, running round through midwicket, and would have been gone with a direct hit. Panesar's figures are 4-0-6-1. Could he be a realistic option in the PowerPlay overs? Probably not: he's too good where he is. It's like playing Cristiano Ronaldo up front. He might do an amazing job, but nobody knows anything so it's better to stick with what you know is a success. Or something. "Clever cricket from Gilchrist," says Gary Naylor. "He walks in a meaningless warm-up match - handy when he gets a tickle in the final and stands looking the umpire in the eye." Surely the World Cup final's no time to play who blinks first. 29th over: Australia 154-2 (chasing 198) Two from Dalrymple's over, a good one. 30th over: Australia 155-2 (chasing 198) Clarke is dropped by Plunkett at mid-off. He charged down the track at Panesar and clunked it down the ground but Plunkett, running round and diving forward, couldn't hold on to a pretty difficult low one-handed chance. Another very classy over, though; one from it.  WICKET! Australia 156-3 (Ponting b Dalrymple 7) Another one goes as Australia starts to acquire a limp. Ponting backed away - like an etc on an etc - to cut a shortish one from Dalrymple, but it gripped and turned a fair way and he could only bottom-edge it back onto the stumps. 31st over: Australia 160-3 (chasing 198) Brad Hodge is the new batsman. 32nd over: Australia 169-3 (chasing 198) Panesar goes for his first boundary, a rapid, ruthless cut shot behind point. If this match is to inform the majority of the tournament England have problems, because it's clear the major run-scoring has taken place in the first 20 overs, where the ball is hard and the field is up. But I'm not sure there will be the sort of uniformity to the pitches that some (admittedly wiser, more knowledgeable men than me) have suggested. Let's hope not, because if they are all like this England are in trouble. "So who's on the field right now, Rob? If Vaughan and Flintoff are off, who have we got instead?" says Kathy Stodart. "Here in NZ we have no visuals of a mere Aussie-England match." I reckon it'll be the other 11 players in the XII named for the match, Kathy. 33rd over: Australia 170-3 (chasing 198) Flintoff's back, and in the attack, although I don't see the point of giving him more work when the game is done. One from the over. 34th over: Australia 171-3 (chasing 198) Jimmy Anderson is on in a double change. There is so little happening that it's as much as I can do to tell you that nothing is happening. The moment I typed that Anderson went up for a biggish LBW shout against Clarke, but it was sliding down leg. "Re: 32nd over. I suggest you check your arithmetic before you get patronising," says Peter Hartman. "Two off and the other eleven of the twelve on? It's not that late in the evening." It's a fair cop. I lose. Although I didn't mean to be patronising, just lightly condescending. 35th over: Australia 173-3 (chasing 198) Australia's aura isn't quite back with this victory, but their green-and-gold shirts are a bit spanglier after an emphatic victory. They still have the issue of their attack - although that is made much easier by the performance of Tait today. For England, it's all a bit familiar.  36th over: Australia 184-3 (chasing 198) It's just a net for Clarke and Hodge now. In that over from Anderson, Clarke leans into one to send it spinning sweetly through the covers for four, and then he launches the next ball high over mid-on for four more. This is a pretty miserable experience for England fans, like Monster's Ball without the fun bits. 37th over: Australia 186-3 (chasing 198) Even though Australia need 14 from 84 balls Flintoff is still galumphing in, admirable fellow that he is. Here's Jacob Reed: "In an effort to take our minds off the farce that's going on in the Windies at the moment, can you offer some advice as to where those of us not in the UK, or able to get Sky, can listen to the World Cup on the internet? All the perks of a government posting in Africa seem less so now..." 38th over: Australia 188-3 (chasing 198) Jon Lewis returns at the Airport End, and there's a belief-beggaring temptation to essay a lame gag about him flying to all parts any minute now. Thankfully I resisted, because there were only two from that over, and man can't fly anyway.  WICKET! Australia 191-4 (Hodge ct and b Collingwood 14) Flintoff tags in Collingwood, to use in an image beloved of my colleague Andy Bull, only with an added squelch of inadvertent lycra-clad eroticism, and he strikes with a slower delivery from which Hodge, turning to leg, gets a leading edge that loops apologetically, as if consumed with self-loathing, back to the bowler.  39th over: Australia 191-4 (chasing 198) That was the end of the over. WICKET! Australia 193-5 (Hussey b Lewis 0) Jon Lewis nails Hussey with a jaffa, a shortish leg-cutter to the left-hander that gripped off the pitch and hit the top of off stump. A little like McGrath's famous delivery to Lara in the 1999 World Cup, in fact, only 10mph slower and from a man with a professorial gait. In the other warm-up... Pakistan are hammering South Africa, by the way. I can't believe South Africa have bottled a World Cup before it even starts. 40th over: Australia 193-5 (chasing 198) Brad Haddin is the new batsman.  AUSTRALIA WIN BY FIVE WICKETS Haddin seals victory - and gets off the mark - by swatting a Collingwood full-toss for six. It was an emphatic victory, bigger than the margin suggests, and England have a lot of concerns going into their first game against New Zealand on Friday, not least the fact that they are essentially an awful one-day side. See you then and, indeed, on Tuesday for the first game between West Indies and Pakistan. Thanks for your emails; it's been regrettable. 