 Shane Warne once said that a coach is just the thing that takes the players to the match, so you can imagine my trepidation on joining his Rajasthan Royals side as "performance coach" for this unprecedented journey into the Indian Premier League. It's strange to think that six months ago the Royals were merely an idea on a piece of paper: no trophy room, no black-and-white pictures on the walls, no heritage. Now we have a stunning stadium, branded buses, top-class kit and a multimillion-pound player budget. This revolution has been on everyone's minds and a week out here has been enough to see why. Cricket's landscape is about to change forever. My involvement in the IPL came about through the London-based businessman Manoj Bedale and his links with my county, Leicestershire. Manoj hails from Jaipur and has a shrewd commercial eye and a passionate cricketing heart. The opportunity to secure his native franchise for his company, Emerging Media, was too good to miss. While the outside world is worried about the wider impact of the IPL, we have been trying to address the "what ifs?" on the pitch. We have a well-rounded backroom staff with Darren Berry from Victoria as Warne's assistant, the former Surrey and India physio John Gloster, an analyst, a masseur, a manager and a media manager. My role blends my experience in Twenty20 strategies and working with the youngsters on handling pressure. I was doubly concerned with the sport-psychology aspect, knowing that Warne, our player-coach, may be a non-believer. But a bit of time with him has confirmed my hopes that he is a brilliant psychologist himself. He speaks passionately about "sensing" the opposition, looking for clues in body language and fearlessly backing his and his team-mates' ability. My work seems to have been well received by the others too. A good number of the players have approached me to discuss their game and the challenges ahead. When Dimitri Mascarenhas arrives next month he will find an interesting mix of team-mates. We have some big international names in Younis Khan, Graeme Smith, Shane Watson and Darren Lehmann to blend with 15 very talented youngsters from India. From a completely cold start, Shane, Darren and I have developed practice schedules and scenarios to fully test our young guns. The Indian boys have been great to work with. This is a life-changing experience for them, financially and emotionally. Dinesh Salunkhe, runner-up in last year's Cricket Star competition, a nationwide hunt for India's best young talent, turned to me after a few moments in the nets and said: "I cannot believe I am with my hero, Shane Warne." Most of the talk in the last few months has been about money but no amount of cash could light up his eyes like that or buy such a genuine smile. India is often described as a country of extremes but I think the next few months will do more to bring its billion inhabitants together than to polarise them. The tickets are on sale for less than £1 which should guarantee sell-out crowds and deafening support. Having visited the local markets yesterday, I could feel the excitement on the streets. As a management team, we have spent the last few days scrambling our local players into a sensible order while the phone calls for short-term international replacements have felt like a surreal combination of fantasy cricket and Supermarket Sweep. Without the need for endless committee meetings, the franchise model allows decision-making at a refreshing and unprecedented pace. Our last full training session yesterday helped us finalise our plans and to at last know who we have available. Our challenge is to prepare each player for the biggest night of their lives, against the Delhi Daredevils tomorrow evening. If ever there was a figurehead to guide our youngsters through the pressures and distractions on the pitch, it's the man the Aussies used to call Hollywood. But with the unstoppable momentum the IPL has generated already, it may be more apt to call him Bollywood.  Jeremy Snape is the performance coach with the Rajasthan Royals 