 Lawrence will be here from 10.30am, with a jaunty trilby and a gleeful smile. Preamble: Hello and welcome to the latest in a long line of Seminal Moments for England's one-day team. If they lose today, they will not be able to win this five-match series, and the optimism generated by last year's wins over India and Sri Lanka will begin to wane. I mean, I realise New Zealand are ranked third in the world, but this is not the side that got them there. If England fail to win this series, they will look back on 15 minutes of sheer madness at Bristol on Saturday, when they lost four for two and made a total of 182 look like 282. Anyway, I digress. Ryan Sidebottom is back for Chris Tremlett, Ian Bell is fit to play and Jacob Oram returns for New Zealand. Full teams in a moment, but for the time being here's the latest edition of the Spin, and here's Mike Selvey on why 50-over cricket isn't actually dead. Toss and teams: Right, so New Zealand have won the toss at The Oval and have stuck England in. Both sides like chasing, don't they? You'll notice, by the way, that Oram has come in for Gareth Hopkins, which means Brendon McCullum resumes his position behind the stumps. England: 1 Ian Bell, 2 Luke Wright, 3 Kevin Pietersen, 4 Ravi Bopara, 5 Paul Collingwood (capt), Owais Shah, 7 Tim Ambrose (wk), 8 Graeme Swann, 9 Stuart Broad, 10 Ryan Sidebottom, 11 James Anderson. New Zealand: 1 Jamie How, 2 Brendon McCullum (wk), 3 Ross Taylor, 4 Scott Styris, 5 Daniel Flynn, 6 Jacob Oram, 7 Grant Elliott, 8 Daniel Vettori (capt), 9 Kyle Mills, 10 Tim Southee, 11 Mark Gillespie. I can't help feeling that England would never lose the Ashes if Gary Naylor was allowed to dispense his wisdom to the dressing room on a regular basis. Here he is on the vexed issue of something or other: "Central contracts are claimed to be so important because it keeps the England players away from the rough boys in county cricket, who might injure them by playing cricket literally 3 or 4 days per week (yes - the human body can stand such stresses). But wouldn't it be cheaper, less bother and actually beneficial to players if we ditched the central contracts and just told the players not to play rugby in the warm-up? OK, perhaps not ditch the central contracts completely, but they should play less golf and more cricket, not least so they are reminded how to win tight matches in bowler-friendly conditions." Before we get going, occasional OBO contributor Sam Collins has written in to alert me to this. Cricket fans will love it... he assures me. 1st over: England 5-0 (Bell 3, Wright 1) As at Chester-le-Street, Kyle Mills begins with a no-ball, except this time he doesn't have Ian Bell caught behind off it - and Bell can only take a single off the free hit rather than the boundary he managed in Durham. Ian Smith is inconsolable in the commentary box. Poor fella. He's had a long tour. Luke Wright clips Mills into the leg-side to open his account, before Bell tucks two to fine-leg as Mills loses his length. 2nd over: England 5-0 (Bell 3, Wright 1) Mark Gillespie is Mills's new-ball partner-in-crime, and he bravely refuses to start with a no-ball. Wright does get hold of a punchy cover-drive, but Vettori moves smartly to his left at mid-off to prevent a run. Wright then slashes and misses at the fifth ball - this is where I think he has to show a bit more judgment: what to leave, what to attack. That's a maiden. 3rd over: England 8-0 (Bell 4, Wright 3) Vettori takes out second slip, which may be an indication that the new ball isn't doing as much as he hoped. But then his decision to bowl first was based around his desire to chase, so that doesn't really count as a tactical blunder. Meanwhile, Mills beats Bell outside off and England are just feeling their way into this innings. A clipped single to deep square brings Bell a single, and then Wright upper-cuts to third man, where Tim Southee's lazy fumble allows the batsmen to come back for a second. Poor. 4th over: England 18-0 (Bell 12, Wright 3) Bell times Gillespie past point for two and then... chaos! Gillespie oversteps, and Bell creams the free-hit over cover for six! But, get this, it's another no-ball, very harshly called by Steve Davis (part of the heel was behind the line). Except this time Bell fails to make contact with the freebie. Ian Smith is spitting feathers with Gillespie for even giving Davis the chance to call him, however miserable a decision it was by the umpire. "Can I get a special mention for my friend Jennifer Offord who ordinarily doesn't care for cricket but, due to a spoon stealing, god-bothering former colleague, really wants the Kiwis to lose today?" asks Jonathan Haskoll. Certainly not: we don't do shout-outs. 5th over: England 22-0 (Bell 12, Wright 6) England have been a bit lucky so far: without those three no-balls and the runs scored off free hits, their total at the start of this over would be eight, not 18. Wright adds two to the total with an uppish flick wide of mid-on off Mills, who then concedes a leg-side wide. Wright keeps the strike with an ugly-looking bunt to third man. "After Andy Bull called me and the great Naylor live text based sport commentaries addicts yesterday, I would like to refute that and propose more of a 'live text based sport commentaries obsessives/stalkers',"says Andy Bradshaw. "Still it'll probably be quiet today except for very smug missives from The Oval, where Bashforth, O'Hagan and a number of other OBO regulars are currently rubbing us office-bound losers' noses in the fact." 6th over: England 33-0 (Bell 18, Wright 11) Wright goes after Gillespie and is fortunate to collect four off the outside edge to third man - he didn't know much about that. He follows that with a more conventional single to third man, and then Bell goes on tiptoes to time Gillespie through the covers off the back foot for four - a genuinely lovely shot. The next ball is clipped past midwicket for two, and suddenly New Zealand are under a bit of pressure. Ranil Dissanayake is in serious mood. "England are a pretty good one-day side at the moment," he declares. "More or less all the skills are in place. Their problem is that they don't deal all that well with pressure, and aren't very good at exerting it for prolonged periods of time. This is a mental problem, nothing to do with the skills of the players on the field. It's mentally exhausting to keep up a McGrathian intensity or self-belief for a full day - but it's what's required to be a truly great team." 7th over: England 36-0 (Bell 18, Wright 14) Wright lifts Mills back down the ground for two, then just evades Ross Taylor at short midwicket as he flicks with a hint of pre-meditation and escapes with a single. Hmm. Bell is playing in more orthodox fashion, as he tends to. This opening partnership has promise, but not a lot more than that at the moment. "Re your description of Ian Smith as 'spitting feathers', does no-balling make him thirsty?" chuckles Iain McCulloch. "As in 'get the kettle on, I'm spitting feathers here'. Interesting reaction from Smuthy there, I would have though he would have been spitting nails, fire or even cobras." Eh, can't feathers be spat? My colleagues on the sports desk seem to think they can be... 8th over: England 40-0 (Bell 18, Wright 18) Wright still looks a touch too frantic - as if he's batting by numbers. He does get hold of one cut there off Gillespie, but it's well-fielded by Jamie How at backward point. He still looks as if he's trying too hard, which I guess is better than not trying at all. But there's a tightness about his batting, and he needs a leg-side gimme off the last ball of the over, helped to fine leg for four, to keep things ticking over. WICKET! Wright c Taylor b Mills 18 (41-1) The end of a very, very frantic innings from Wright comes courtesy of a superbly sharp catch by Taylor at midwicket. Wright goes on the pull and can scarcely believe it as Mills sticks out a right hand and holds on. Brilliant stuff! "As a big fan of creating new national stereotypes, could I suggest that the OBO make it a goal to promulgate the idea of Kiwis as 'spoon-stealing god-botherers?'" says Erik Petersen, a looting and pillaging Viking. "That's what they're like down there, you know. No spoons anywhere. Can't let a spoon out of your sight for a minute. Wouldn't think it'd be so, what with all the god-bothering, but there you go. And don't even get me started on how they come over here to take our spoons." I had no idea. 9th over: England 41-1 (Bell 18, Pietersen 0) So, the jury remains out on Wright as one-day opener. Now, what can Kevin Pietersen do on this belter of an Oval pitch? WICKET! Pietersen c Southee b Gillespie 0 (44-2) That's a staggeringly poor shot from Pietersen. Facing only his second ball he tries to hit Gillespie towards Oval tube and simply skies it back over the bowler's head where Southee makes no mistake. Brainless. "It's not entirely relevant," confesses Mat Bird, "but I thought I'd take this opportunity to try and dissuade any OBOers out there who were thinking of holidaying in Doha this year. I've been working here for the last week and it is the most boring, meteorologically-challenged culture-vacuum I have ever visited (and I've been to Manchester). It ought to be renamed Don'tha." 10th over: England 48-2 (Bell 21, Bopara 4) I'm still reeling at the idiocy of Pietersen. There's a hundred on this pitch for a top-six batsman, but he didn't even give himself the chance to play himself in. And now, yet another big innings for Ravi Bopara, who edges his first ball from Gillespie past third slip and away for four. England are living very dangerously. 11th over: England 52-2 (Bell 22, Bopara 7) This will be a big test for Bell, and I'm not just talking about the need to avoid a run-out with Bopara at the other end. He has the chance to stamp his mark on this opening role now by batting for 40 overs or more and anchoring England towards 280. An iffy upper-cut to third man brings him a single off Mills as Vettori immediately takes the second powerplay, and then Bopara eases him nicely through square-leg for two. An edgy single as he plays forward keeps him the strike. "Catching up, I notice you were described as a trilby-wearer," says John Starbuck. "Is this entirely appropriate for cricket, when a Panama, linen sunhat or boater looks better? Alternatively, a self-consciously comedy hat might do if you want to make a point. But then, perhaps it's raining in your office so you need substantial indoor headgear." 12th over: England 52-2 (Bell 22, Bopara 7) Gillespie beats Bopara, who carefully leaves alone the next delivery. If only Pietersen had showed such circumspection. Instead, New Zealand can just dictate terms for a few overs while England guard against the loss of a third quick wicket. A maiden. "We're far too busy watching cricket to worry about desk jockeys likeBradshaw," says Richard O'Hagan at The Oval. "Though he types a lot for a man who has spent the past fortnight whinging about his broken arm." 13th over: England 61-2 (Bell 31, Bopara 7) Mills drifts to leg and Bell has time to shuffle across and tuck him past short fine leg for four. I hope Wright is watching: that was a calm shot using the pace of the ball. And he follows that with a neat cut behind point for four more. Well played - but there's a long way to go. A single to third man will give him the strike. "Surely the best way of stopping spoons from being half-inched, by god botherers or not, is to have some cord attaching them to your pocket or belt," says the ubiquitous Andy Bradshaw. "Yes you'll look like a really sad git, but no Kiwi-based religious fanatic will be able to get between you and your Muller Lite." 14th over: England 64-2 (Bell 34, Bopara 7) Southee replaces Gillespie (6-2-32-1) and he's eased square on the off-side for two by Bell, the very picture of calm. And then he keeps the strike again, this time with a shuffle down the track and a flick over midwicket for a single. "I've said it before but Pietersen is criminally underachieving for his talent," says Andrew Moore. "He should be scoring as many runs as Ponting, Chanderpaul, Sangakkara et al, but a pattern is developing where a ton is followed by a number of meek failures. When is he going to start consistently dominating attacks? Perhaps the worst thing that could have happened for him is to pull off those left-handed shots. The subsequent media reaction can have done no good to his ego." 15th over: England 69-2 (Bell 39, Bopara 7) Oram is into the attack for Mills (7-1-28-1) and Bell caresses his second ball down the ground for four very lovely runs - the kind of runs you'd be happy to take home and introduce to your parents. He then nurdles Oram to third man for a single, before Bopara defends the last two balls of the over. This is a so-so start by England. "This is a perfect chance for bell to go on and make an important hundred instead of a nice 40," says Sam Blackledge, who has clearly been reading the OBO. "If he doesn't, it's time for a rethink. He just doesn't perform when the chips are down." Right, so if I understand you properly: if Bell doesn't get a hundred today, drop him? 16th over: England 72-2 (Bell 41, Bopara 8) Bopara steals a quick single off Southee and Bell nudges another to third man. Three off the over. "So can someone tell me what the Kiwis are doing with all the spoons they steal?" asks Steve Hudson. "Do they take them back home to NZ? A phone call to Customs surely, might be advisable, especially if we lose this game…" 17th over: England 74-2 (Bell 42, Bopara 9) Oram continues after the drinks break and England have to push on now. Bell keeps running the ball off the face to third man for a single, and Bopara scampers through for a leg-side single. But there are very few bad balls to hit at the moment: this is disciplined stuff from the New Zealanders. "What is it with England batsmen?" moans Ben Hendy. "A very general question, so I'll qualify it a bit. A number of our players join the England set-up and enjoy a very successful start - Strauss, Pietersen, Cook being my prime examples - and then suffer a significant slump. Do bowlers get wise to their weaknesses? Do we build them up too much and they get cocky? Did they just get called up initially at the height of their powers, when they're in top form, and after a couple of years that form goes and they revert to type? KP in particular has looked very poor far too often of late, merely punctuating a run of 5 or 6 bad (or terrible) innings with one startlingly good one. Shouldn't our main weapon be firing a little more often?" WICKET! Bell c McCullum b Southee 46 (81-3) Surprise, surprise. The ball after spanking Southee through the covers for four, Bell is surprised by a bit of bounce as he tries to nibble one to third man and is caught behind. I'm afraid that is mind-numbing in its predictability. "If KP played a naive shot, at least he did it off the back off a ton two matches ago and with another ton (statistically) due soon," says Gary Naylor. "The problem with England's other batsmen is that they play naive shots without the ton behind them and with precious little prospect of one to come. No other player in the world is expected to lead the charge while anchoring the innings." 18th over: England 81-3 (Bopara 10, Collingwood 0) I'm still grieving. Give me a moment. "Can't help noticing that the Guardian Bookshop advert on the OBO page is suggesting I buy 'Solitary Fitness' by renowned fitness guru and hardened criminal Charles Bronson," says Tom Hodges. "Are you trying to say something about us readers? Do we need to get out a bit more?" 19th over: England 82-3 (Bopara 11, Collingwood 0) These two need to mount a serious repair job after the over-excitement of Wright, the carelessness of Pietersen and the fallibility of Bell. The trouble is, Bopara has issues of his own, which more or less places the onus on Captain Colly. One off Oram's over. "How do you rate England's batting vs that of the victorious Old Fallopians on Sunday?" asks Chris Sweet. "Did it hurt to be beaten by such a slender margin? And did I get it right when I gave our captain AK out LBW as we limped to a rare win?" It was the taking part that counted, Chris, especially as I made a duck and took no wicket for 25 off 2.3 overs. And from where I was fielding at long leg, AK was plumb. 20th over: England 91-3 (Bopara 12, Collingwood 8) Bopara is - guess what? - almost run out as he tips Southee to Gillespie at mid-on and is short of the crease as the throw whizzes past the stumps. On the basis that all the England batsmen are living down to their stereotypes today, I fully expect Collingwood to make a gritty century: there's four of them, thanks to a chunky push past mid-off. And then - great shot! - the England captain advances on Southee and launches him over midwicket for four more. "Pretty obvious that the NZ population see the spoons as an answer to the world's economic woes and are using them to eat their Credit Crunchies," cackles John Bains. 21st over: England 98-3 (Bopara 13, Collingwood 14) Bopara is getting stuck in a rut - he has to work the ball around more adeptly, but he needs three deliveries there to get Oram away for a single into the covers. Collingwood shows the way with a leg-side shovel for two, and then cashes in with a fortunate Chinese cut for four - is there any other kind? "While this is a very interesting ODI," says Richard Moore, "surely the only important question that needs to be answered today is: 'Just how many times can Northants get their supporters' hopes up before cruelly dashing them?' I mean I've supported them for a good few years and even I was fooled by their performance in this year's Twenty20!" True, but we only need to win one of the last two games to make it to the quarter-finals. Surely... WICKET! Collingwood b Southee 14 (101-4) So much for the gritty hundred. Collingwood is rooted to the crease as he jabs at Southee and gets a big inside edge onto his middle stump. What a mess. Meanwhile, Jennifer Offord, the original victim of the spoon crime, writes: "You should also note that the spoon-stealer was a God-botherer who told two colleagues they were living in sin at our Xmas meal, refused to doctor her timesheet because "Jesus would know" she had lied, used to shut her eyes when she spoke, and had some manner of horrid spittle situation." Jennifer has kindly provided a transcript of the spooon-stealing conversation, but it's too long to relate here. Suffice to say, the police have been informed. 22nd over: England 101-4 (Bopara 15) I have a horrible feeling about this game. 23rd over: England 103-4 (Bopara 16, Shah 1) On comes Vettori for Oram (4-0-15-0) and England are two wickets away from probable defeat. Bopara works him to leg for a single and Shah makes it two off the over with a push to long-on. "Did you happen to see Graham Napier's ridiculously good/skilled/fortuitous innings yesterday?" asks Neil Mackie. "The clean hitting in the latter stages of his knock - ignoring the sketchy hoicks at the start - was only bested by the sight of Bumble climbing about gantry scaffolding to nick a cricket ball, with Nasser Hussain hoping he'd fall and injure himself. Speaking of which, why was Hussain never as entertaining on a pitch as he is in the commentary box?" Probably because he was too busy trying to turn England from a team of losers into a team of draw-ers. I was at Bristol yesterday to watch a very low-key Gloucestershire win over Glamorgan, so I missed all the fun. 24th over: England 103-4 (Bopara 16, Shah 1) This is a good line from Southee, Saturday's match-winner with his middle-order-destroying four-wicket haul. A maiden to Shah, who was just looking to survive. "I hdgve repl36tced my fingeeeers wifff st0lin spooons asd use thm foir tupping om mi conpooter," says Nathan Green. 25th over: England 104-4 (Bopara 17, Shah 1) England have ground to a halt. Just a single off that Vettori over. "I would impose a Strauss-style 'naughty corner' county exile for Bell until the end of the season," says Sam Blackledge. "I just wouldn't back him if we were 10-2 needing 320 to beat South Africa in the final Test. Alternatives for the Test team? Shah, Key, Bopara." Ah, it's just like being in the 1990s... 26th over: England 111-4 (Bopara 18, Shah 7) Wow! Where did that come from? Shah plants his front foot down the track and swings Southee across the line for a very big six: 97m, in fact. But the tension remains. "Lawrence, if you have a horrible feeing about this game spare a thought for us poor New Zealanders," says Matthew Plummer. "We suffer exactly the same thing every time we head into the knockout stages of the rugby World Cup." 27th over: England 117-4 (Bopara 23, Shah 8) Bopara plays the best shot of an indeterminate innings, advancing on Vettori to lift him over the head of short midwicket and away for four. If these two can go at five an over for the next 12 or 13, England will have a platform of sorts. There are plenty of heads on the chopping block today. "How many more chances is Ravi Bopara going to be given if he fails here?" asks Andrew Hewitt. "One solitary fifty in 23 innings is not even close to being enough for a specialist batsman. Even Luke Wright, much maligned in his opening role has a better record than Bopara... and he's an all-rounder under pressure to get runs! I'm not advocating a return to chopping and changing for the sake of it, but at some point you have to think that one fifty every five or so series is not enough of a return for your No4." 28th over: England 124-4 (Bopara 28, Shah 10) The batsmen trade quick singles off Southee, but Bopara really needs to crack on here after spending 40-odd balls over his innings. He then edges a pull and the ball lodges between the peak of his helmet and his visor - no harm done, but that could have been nasty. And it's the second pull-cum-hook that's hit him on the head: here comes a new helmet. After a short delay, Bopara then eases Southee wide of mid-on for four: classy. "In the canteen of a building I used to work in, the game of spoon stealing was a dangerous affair," says Gemma Harris. "If caught you would be (very loudly) berated by the dinner ladies, told that spoons and all other plastic cutlery items were to be purchased for 20p (seriously 20p!!!) each and not to be stolen. Needless to say we had draws full of the things in our desks in defiance of the nasty hags!" 29th over: England 124-4 (Bopara 28, Shah 10) A maiden from Vettori to Shah, who was rather stuck in his crease there. "As a spoon stealer born and bred I must take issue with Jennifer Offord after reading her statement '…refused to doctor her timesheet'," says Craig Brown. "I think they were an imposter. No Kiwi I know would stoop so low. Maybe she was really a dirty forker from across the Tasman. I hear one or two of them are honest." 30th over: England 131-4 (Bopara 34, Shah 11) Lovely shot frm Bopara, who eases the returning Mills through extra-cover for four. I don't want to tempt fate, but is this a breakthrough innings? Probably not. Seven off the over, which is more like it from England. "I have absolutely no pity for any poor Northants supporter after Notts' five-run loss last night to the mighty juggernaut that is Leicestershire," says Erik Petersen. "I struggle to imagine the crimes against batting the side would be guilty of if not for the vaguely adequate heroics of rent-a-Hussey Adam Voges. The real problem at Notts is probably that they signed the Kiwi Chris Cairns, which means team spirit is straining under the weight of constant spittle-intensive lectures on the wages of sin, and a sudden locker-room spoon shortage." 31st over: England 137-4 (Bopara 37, Shah 13) Bopara and Shah exchange singles off Vettori, who is so unnerved by the experience that he slips in a leg-side wide. Six off the over and England are recovering quite nicely, thank you. "D'you think the God-bothering, spoon-stealing Kiwi would ask Jesus (who appears to be a close friend) to ask his Father what Pietersen thought he was doing second ball?" wonders Luke Williams. "Only He knows, apparently…" 32nd over: England 138-4 (Bopara 38, Shah 13) Oram comes back for Mills, who bowled just one over in his last spell and still has two up his black sleeve. England need these two to stay together for another 10 overs at the very least, otherwise the last few overs of the innings could be a bit of a grind. Bopara does his best to get a thin edge to McCullum with a lazy fiddle that misses everything, then ends a sequence of four dots with a quick single into the covers. "NZ has its share of God-botherers, and we try to run them out of here to parts foreign," says Jerry Miller. "Sorry. Spoon-coveting is a sin, as everyone knows." 33rd over: England 147-4 (Bopara 40, Shah 20) Great stuff from Shah, who goes inside-out to lift Vettori over extra-cover for six. He then holds the pose, bat behind head, before losing his balance. Hell of a shot though - and that's nine off the over. "It's about having five guys at the top of the order who you would want to bat for your life," drones Sam Blackledge. "At the moment I wouldn't even want Ian Bell to bat for my cheese sandwich." 34th over: England 156-4 (Bopara 46, Shah 23) Bopara runs Oram's first ball after the drinks break to third man for four, then takes a single and watches Shah pull meatily for two to bring up an increasingly enterprising 50 stand. Nine more for England. Good fightback. "Regards the comments in 27th over," says Ian Batch. "Ravi has only been batting 4 in this series, so to look at his international career so far you cannot say it's a poor return for a No4 because he's only just been given the chance there. He played a brilliant innings that very nearly won a World Cup game in the Caribbean and has been in sensational form for Essex this year. He's also only 23 years old. Persist with him at 4 and his class will tell." 35th over: England 163-4 (Bopara 51, Shah 24) Aha, here's Grant Elliott, who has taken five for 32 in the series up to this point, and is harshly called for a wide by Mark Benson after the ball flicks Shah's thigh pad on the way through to McCullum. And there's Bopara's 50, which he reaches with a leg-side tickle for four as Elliott loses his line. It's taken him 69 balls but the caution was worth it in the circumstances. "As I appear to be blocked from getting on the OBO this year, I shall resort to cheating by making a reference to Northants, which usually seems to do the trick," says Gareth Strachan. "I had a great aunt who lived in Northants, Auntie Connie. She died a good 20 years ago. It's also my birthday, which is nice. And my favourite Flump is Pootle." I sometimes wonder what I'm doing here, I really do. 36th over: England 170-4 (Bopara 56, Shah 26) The shot of the day from Bopara, who times Oram on the up through extra-cover for four. If Shah's two sixes were the headline grabbers, that was a beautifully written standfirst (apologies to the many non-hacks among you). "Why are so many contributors getting so upset at England's indifferent form in this series?" asks Don Wilson. "As long a we win the Test series does it really matter what happens in these Mickey Mouse shorter forms of the game? This is much better than last year when,World Cup aside, we were winning all but one of our limited over series and losing all but one of our Test series." Yes, but OBO readers love a whinge. It's that or work. 37th over: England 175-4 (Bopara 58, Shah 29) Elliott continues, and England are happy to milk him for five singles - their least-productive over for a while. "While nobody condones the okey-cokey selection policy of the pre-Fletcher days (although it was gratifying to see highlights yesterday of England securing a 1997 3-0 ODI series win over Australia in Ben Hollioake's match) wouldn't it have been fun if Geoff Miller had said this morning, "Yeah, Belly, Ravi and Owais are really playing for two places," says Gary Naylor. "We'll weigh it up after this series." Pressure yes, but international sport is all about pressure isn't it?" WICKET! Bopara c Oram b Gillespie 58 (176-5) Careless. Gillespie suckers Bopara with a slower ball which is driven immaculately to mid-on. That was wretched timing for England - they needed these two to push on for another five overs at least. 38th over: England 180-5 (Shah 31, Ambrose 3) Tim Ambrose works his third ball through square-leg for three and Gillespie will be furious with that - a real pressure-releaser. 39th over: England 185-5 (Shah 35, Ambrose 4) Shah is the key to this match now. If he can bat through, England ought to be favourites. If New Zealand get him in the next few overs, they should win. Shah begins by working Vettori through midwicket for two, then cracks him to deep cover for a single. But he needs Ambrose to stay with him, and he drives square on the off-side for a single. A florid cut for one gives Shah the strike. "Couldn't agree more with Naylor on the selection pressure," says Tom Walling. "Every player should feel every performance matters, and if they underperform there's a hungry replacement waiting in the wings. Doesn't seem to have harmed the Aussies. Problem is, there doesn't seem to be anyone. Bring David Sales in, I say. Northants' David Sales, that is." Northants, you say? Interesting. 40th over: England 198-5 (Shah 47, Ambrose 4) Shah launches Gillespie over mid-off for four, then drives his next ball wide of mid-on for four more. A leg-side wide in effect makes it nine runs off two balls, and then - after a dot ball - Shah plonks Gillespie back over his head for a third boundary in the over. "I know you accuse Sam Blackledge of droning on but the facts are there and slowly but surely, as you say yourself, it is becoming predictable," says Angus Barry. "Fortunately I was onto Ian Tinker Bell a couple of years ago and have been making a small fortune as he fails in pressure situations time after time. Ultimately it is just depressing, but it keeps me in beer and chips so I hope he is allowed to continue plying his trade for England." 41st over: England 203-5 (Shah 50, Ambrose 6) Shah works Vettori through midwicket for two, then moves to a 63-ball half-century with a little dab into the off-side. Well played. "Is it just me, or is 'wretched timing' a piece of despicably lazy hackery?" moans Josh Robinson. "I mean, apart from when you're cruising along with one or two down after 40 overs, with some big hitters to come in, is it ever good timing to lose a wicket? And would the timing really have been any less wretched if the wicket had come at any point in the previous 12 overs?" Oh, I dare say you're right, Josh. Next match I'll ask the players to slow down a bit so I can pepper every entry with glorious originality. WICKET! Ambrose c Flynn b Oram 6 (203-6) Another poor one-day innings from Ambrose, who plays out three dot balls against Oram, then pulls him straight to Flynn at deep square-leg. "Surely if we can learn anything from Northants it's that nationalities are merely an inconvenience to be ignored," muses Richard Moore. "Why don't we select Ponting, Hussey and Muralitharan to play against South Africa this summer?" Because we've already got our quota of overseas players, that's why... 42nd over: England 205-6 (Shah 52, Swann 0) Shah works Oram to fine leg for two, but he can't get the strike. England's fate lies in his hands - and those of the colleagues who have to give him the strike. Here's smartie-pants Josh Robinson again. "As if facts were necessary to back up my point: overs of 5, 5, 13 and 5 since the over in which the wicket fell don't exactly support your claim. p.s. Northants." An unbearable email is salvaged only by the post-script. 43rd over: England 213-6 (Shah 58, Swann 2) Mills returns for one of the two overs still available to him and the batsmen exchange singles off the first two balls - and then Gillespie almost gets to Graeme Swann's very thick outside edge at third man, but, diving forward, he just fails to hold on. That would have been a stunning catch. Shah needs to stay in the groove and duly opens the face to time a low full-toss through extra-cover for four, much to Mills's anger. Eight off the over. "There's a lot already done to combat spoon rustling in the name of anti-terrorism legislation," says Tom Newman. "We long ago introduced compulsory metal detectors in our airports for all Kiwis leaving the country (OK, we'll check everyone else as well, so it looks equal), and we've introduced plastic spoons on flights to New Zealand (as if anyone has ever hijacked a plane with a spoon), and yet they're still at it. It's no wonder we need national DNA databases, identity cards and CCTV cameras on every street corner. Bring on 42 days for anyone looking at spoons for too long..." 44th over: England 219-6 (Shah 63, Swann 3) England need at least 260 here to push New Zealand, and Shah's going to have to get most of them. He manoeuvres Oram through midwicket for two, then collects two more with an open-faced extra-cover drive. "Would it be possible to invite Josh Robinson to write a guest OBO commentary for our delectation," says David Smeath. "That, or tell him to pi$$ off to Cricinfo..." WICKET! Swann c How b Mills 3 (219-7) England are running out of wickets. That was, dare I say it, wretched timing: a thick edge straight How at backward point. "I would disagree with Josh Robinson," says Anil Haji. "The trick England have acquired, unfortunately, is to lose a wicket at the exact moment we start thinking the partnership is looking good. I don't know they do it. Telepathy, perhaps? Or perhaps they just want to get back to the pavilion to make sure the Kiwi support staff haven't made off with their spoons?" 45th over: England 220-7 (Shah 63, Broad 1) I'd be tempted to bat Stuart Broad at No7 in this line-up, but then that would be an admission that Tim Ambrose isn't pulling his weight - and the selectors are very sensitive about the whole wicket-keeping issue. Naturally, my suggestion is the cue for successive play-and-misses from Broad. And then he goes and keeps the strike by carving the last ball to third man for a single. Shah is being left stranded. WICKET! Shah run out (Gillespie) 63 (221-8) Is that game over? Shah is beaten by Gillespie's direct hit from deep extra-cover as he tries to turn Broad's drive from one into two. Great fielding, but England have made a right royal mess of this. 46th over: England 226-8 (Broad 4, Sidebottom 3) How many runs will that save New Zealand, given Shah's ability in the death overs? He was hesitant about setting off for the second, and when he did, he didn't exactly sprint. The previous regime reckoned Shah was mentally flabby at times, and that was a prime example. Shame, because he batted really well. But England will be lucky to get close to 250 now, which is surely the minimum on this pitch. Six off Oram's over. "I suppose Anil Haji thinks it's better to do a Pietersen and lose a wicket before the partnership looks good?" says Josh Robinson. "P.s. steelbacks." Is it just me, or does Josh Robinson strike you as one of those blokes who always has to be right? WICKET! Broad c How b Southee 5 (228-9) Wretched timing! Broad slices Southee to point and England will probably be bowled out before the end of the 50th over. "Graeme Swann surely belongs to the Jamie Dalrymple and Michael Yardy school of average county players who can bat a bit and bowl a bit but can do neither convincingly yet are unaccountably playing limited overs cricket for England," laments Andrew Moore. "Next we'll be picking Chris Schofield off the back of a couple of handy T20 performances for Surrey. Bring back Monty (of Northants)!" 48th over: England 233-9 (Sidebottom 6, Anderson 2) Andy Bull has just sloped in ahead of the New Zealand reply, so get your emails to him pronto. You know the address by now. "We are being made to look cack – oh, hang on…**penny drops**" says Shaun Gibbons. "And there's no shortage of spoons on the field of play…just in case anyone's stuck." 49th over: England 242-9 (Sidebottom 6, Anderson 10) A big slice of luck for Anderson, who advances on Southee as if he's Viv Richards and pokes the ball between keeper and floating slip for four as if he's Phil Tufnell. And then he does it a second time, just to prove that the first was no fluke. "I think 'mentally flabby' is a terrific turn of phrase, especially in the death overs," chuckles Matt Delargy. WICKET! Anderson run out (Taylor/Gillespie) 11 (245) Fair enough, England had to run anything, but they have been bowled out with two deliveries of their 50 overs remaining and New Zealand really ought to win this. Thanks for all the emails. "Sorry to bring up Naylor's point again, but given that Bopara, TinkerBell and N-Owais were all playing for two places and got about the same number of runs, who drops out?" asks Tom Wallings. "Who played least well for his runs? Or who isn't Northants enough for this team?" Keep all three, I say! But it's one you'll have to debate later with Herr Bull. LUNCH You sure get some odd types in the yard out back. Crazed cycle couriers and the like, haggard fag chuffers and lackadaisical loafers. This one chap, well he's been trying to collar me for a while. He must be desperate for company. His opening gambit was "Just catching some rays, getting me some that of that ol' time skin cancer". I made the mistake making eye contact, and he proceeded to waffle his way through the length of my entire cigarette. 'Can you not see that i'm trying to mentally cobble a preamble for the OBO?' I thought, "yes, sure" I said, as he prattled away with some mundane story about his morning commute. He was incessantly, irrepressibly chirpy, and I just had to stand and nod before making a hasty retreat back indoors. So that's why I don't have a preamble for you. I had five minutes of this guy inflicted upon me, now you have too. Wow, you lot are in feisty form today. I've had three emails so far, and each of them has seemed, for one reason or another, unprintable. Suffice to say to the last, Josh Robinson, that the man outside looked nothing like Alan Rusbridger. Nothing at all. A good point that, perhaps, to switch our attention back to the cricket. Here come the Kiwis, sadly not to the strains of Paint It Black. 1st over: New Zealand 1-0 (How 1 McCullum 0)The first over belongs to Ryan Sidebottom, and the first ball to Jamie How. "Have you considered that the crazed chap who is "desperate for company" has been hired by the Guardian HR department with the intention of making lazy hacks return to their desk that much quicker?" Goddamnit Andy Banks you're right, those folk in HR are as cunning as the devil. An immaculate opening from Sidebottom, all six balls in just the right place to keep How on his toes. A single from the sixth is all he takes. 2nd over: New Zealand 7-0 (How 6 McCullum 1)And at the other end, Jimmy Anderson. A misfield by Wright at short mid-wicket gifts McCullum the strike, and England's pulses quicken. Anderson follows up with a bouncer, the ball spitting up off the pitch and over the batsman's head. And another piece of poor fielding, this time by Bopara, diving onto a cut from How and flicking the ball on over the boundary rope. WICKET! McCullum 1 c Swann b Sidebottom (3rd over: New Zealand 11-1) (How 6 Taylor 4)Humbug! How disappointing. McCullum goes, swinging his bat at a wide ball from Sidebottom and slicing a catch into Swann's mitts at slip. Taylor is scarcely less entertaining to watch mind, even if he is less hyped. H ecrashes his second ball through cover for four. "Given that TinkerBell, Bopara and N-Owais are arguably fighting over two places," points out Tom Walling, "and all got similar scores, who gets sent back to the shires? Who batted best, and who shouldn't be there?" Sorry two places? Who are you bringing in to the team? Flintoff I suppose? Surely he'd be at the expense of Anderson or Sidebottom? Wait a minute... you sent this in to Booth earlier on didn't you? You toaster. This has already been done hasn't it? 4th over: New Zealand 13-1 (How 6 Taylor 4)Tom Vincent has an OBO exclusive - scooped in Brizzle. "I spotted quite a few of the players knocking about at a bar" [Fleece and Firkin was it Tom? Thought as much] "in Bristol on Saturday night trying to look anonymous and failing utterly. I learned two important things that night; 1. Stuart Broad really does look remarkably like Draco Malfoy. 2. Paul Collingwood doesn't like much it when drunk girls ask him if he's Michael Vaughn 'cause he's the England captain right?… and that's you innit?'." To be fair, no one would want to be mistaken for a man who wears Vaughan's mullet. How bizarre... KP has just accidentally body-checked Ross Taylor, who was completing a quick single. KP caught Taylor's helmet on his brow and collapsed like a punctured lung. 5th over: New Zealand 14-1 (How 7 Taylor 5)New Zealand need 233 to win. Sidebottom gifts them one with a wide. He slips the next past Taylor's outside edge, the batsman playing a flourishing drive inside the line. Again Sidebottom beats the bat. "Talking to crazies has become one of those terrible side-effects of the smoking ban," points out Tom Walling, "arguably worse than hypothermia and losing your seat. It's very difficult to avoid the weirdos, as you can't be rude to a crazy. He'll stab you right up." Indeed. Possibly with a spoon. Another parsimonious over from Sideshow. So far he's 3-1-6-0. 6th over: New Zealand 20-1 (How 12 Taylor 6)Anderson musters an lbw shout, but the bounce is too high. As he drops shorter and wider, How slashes an ungainly cut away for four. WICKET! Taylor 6 c Broad b Sidebottom (7th over: New Zealand 24-2 (How 12 Styris 0)That man with the inside line, Tom Vincent, has clarified that it wasn't the England players weren't drinking in the famous Fleece, but in a bar called Embargo. Which he describes as "a bar run by pigs for the benefit of cattle and swamp-donkeys." Nice. "Clearly is was an act of self-flagellation in penitence for their shabby performance earlier that day." The punitive powers of cheap grizzly boozing eh? That's the way to learn your lessons. Ah! Looks like Taylor will be needing a dash of that. Sidebottom's persistence has paid off, Taylor, feeling hamstrung, swiped an ugly heave over towards mid-wicket, where Stuart Broad was loitering to take a good catch. 8th over: New Zealand 25-2 (How 12 Styris 0)Dropped him! A terrible drop too. It was by Shah at second slip, the ball popping off the edge of Styris's bat and moving head-high towards the fielder. He clenched his hands on it, but somehow it just burst through his grip. Shah and Swann really is an unusual slip cordon combination. Styris swings madly at the next one, seemingly keen not to be too tardy about things. 9th over: New Zealand 31-2 (How 16 Styris 6)"If Broad is Malfoy, then Sideshow is Hermione, Colleywobbles is Ron Weasley Ian Bell is Dobbie and the IPL is Voldemort" emails Roy Probert. Look pal, you can just cut that out right now. I've no truck with that kind of Potter-related nonsense mongering. Styris crunches a pugnacious cover drive away for four. 10th over: New Zealand 33-2 (How 17 Styris 6)Why is everyone - OK two people - asking me what team I support? Did Booth start banging on about how much he loves Northants now that they're doing well in the Twenty20? Yeah, must be a great joy to watch all those journeyman South African allrounders 'representing' the Blatherwycke massive. Shame on you for not knowing, after all this time, that I'm a Somerset man through and through. If you like I'll sing the Blackbird song - surely the finest of all county anthems - to prove it. 11th over: New Zealand 46-2 (How 21 Styris 15 )If you don't believe me, pick up a copy of the Frome Standard and check out the inside of the back page. What do you mean the Frome Standard isn't available where you are? Styris has smacked a pair of glorious fours from the first two balls of this Sidebottom over, each of them driven through the covers. How knocks a leg-stump half volley for four to fine leg, and suddenly Sidebottom's fingers have taken a battering. He went for 13 from this over. 12th over: New Zealand 60-2 (How 22 Styris 28)Broad is on, and Styris, who has flung himself into some vicious form here, smears his first ball past point for four. Elizabeth Connor is having flashbacks: "No not embargo! Its one of those "we're trendy and cool" places with faux leather sofas and cheap nasty drinks." Sounds familiar.. "it's too noisy and there is no where to sit as the three 'leather' sofas are occupied by tanorextic retail assistants who think binge drinking in a place where the paint isn't peeling is the height of sophistication, who are being eyed up by guys in ben sherman shirts with dodgy blonde highlights." Yeah I remember, that's a ringer of a description for the Guardian canteen, it really is. Styris is stirring memories of that period last year, around and about the World Cup, when Styris was - don't laugh - one of the most effective one-day batsmen in the world. He's clunked another four through the off here, and followed it up with a similar shot for three more. 13th over: New Zealand 62-2 (How 22 Styris 28)New Zealand need 186 to win from 37 overs, which means they need about five an over. Anderson returns to the attack. "How your heart must have been gladdened the other day, Andy, when Tresco hit 107 off 57" points out Clare Davies, and correct as she was I wasn't nearly so pleased as I was when Peter 'Superstar' Trego hit 70 against Worcestershire, anyway Clare continues: "And how much must England be wishing old Marcus could still play for his country." How true is that? I mean, Ian Bell and Luke Wright? The joke was funny at first but it's wearing a little thin now. Have the selectors given up on the idea of specialist opening batsmen? 14th over: New Zealand 64-2 (How 25 Styris 28)Broad is back on at the Pavilion End. "I'll think you'll find Mr Bull that the Blackbird song is also sung by Gloucestershire supporters. In fact, I think we started singing it first!" Woah woah woah Mike Patten, back up. That's funny. Real funny. Next you'll be telling me that the Wurzels were born in Cheltenham. Nuntytoop. Dropped him! A stiff chance this, unlike the last. Collingwood diving to this left at point got both hands to the ball as it flew past him, but he shelled it. Another life for Styris then. For the benefit of the uninitiated, here it is in all it's, ahm, glory (?). Turn it up loud and make an effort to learn the words. You'll be singing it when Somerset win the Championship later this year... 15th over: New Zealand 67-2 (How 26 Styris 28)New Zealand need 181 from 35 overs. Unlike myself, my esteemed Big Paper mucker from Yawkshire David Hopps isn't all that impressed with Ravi Bopara, click here to find out why and let him know what you think. "Frome is in Avon is it not?" grumbles Robert Wickes, "Sorry if I am being pedantic but I recall when Somerset Under 12s merged with Avon Under 12s many of the Avon lads remained resistant to the new regime and there was a clear split in the camp. It also meant that my team, Dorset Under 12s, no longer had a county side that they could beat on the West Country circuit". Jeez Robert, get with the national geographic already... Avon ceased to exist years ago, hurried out of existence by almost as quickly as it was first coined by the bureaucrats who decide these things. Amazing how they can just decide to create a new county, and then get rid of it again, just like that. A bit like rebranding the Post Office I guess. 17th over: New Zealand 73-2 (How 28 Styris 32)Dropped him! Again. This time Styris patted a drive back towards Broad in his follow through. Not too tough a chance, but Broad just couldn't clutch it. Styris blunderbusses the next through cover for four more. I seem to have misplaced an over somewhere or other. Down the crack at the back of my mind I imagine. Apologies. 18th over: New Zealand 78-2 (How 33 Styris 34)After that last drop by Broad, it's a fine time to print this from John Starbuck: "As we seem to be bigging up different counties in today's OBO, can I put in a word for Nottinghamshire? At least we teach people how to catch the ball, especially off a Notts man's bowling..." Err yeah, what was that? Here's Luke Wright. Christ he looks a mediocre player. What the hell is he doing as an opening batsman / second change quick? Who came up with this theory? How cracks a long-hop on leg stump for four. 19th over: New Zealand 81-2 (How 35 Styris 36)Broad's pace is right up, touching 90mph. That said, the Kiwis do a good job of riding the bounce, playing him variously out to the off and behind point for a bunch of singles. WICKET! How 37 c &b Swann 20th over: New Zealand 82-3 (Styris 36 Flynn 0)Graeme Swann, in no way looking like an idiot in his white sunglasses, comes on for a fiddle. He's a chance to really shape this match here, with a nice long holding spell through the middle overs. There isn't too much spin out there mind. And that's exactly what's done for Jamie How, playing across the line for the turn and having badly misjudging his shot he popped up a catch from the leading edge back to Swann. 21st over: New Zealand 87-3 (Styris 35 Flynn 2)More hot gossip on the England teams antics in Brizzle, crumbs you're a salacious lot down that way: "Since there seems to be a fair amount of chat about where the cricketers went on Saturday night, I ought to inform you that they didn't spend too long in Mbargo's (yes that's right there is no E). 'Too many students' was the complaint I heard. After leaving most of them lurched onwards and upwards (well at least a little further up the hill) to Joe Public's which has a few less students and the drinks costs a lot more…" Too many students? For KP's liking? Surely not. Flynn punches two runs out to mid-wicket to move off zero. 22nd over: New Zealand 88-3 (Styris 37 Flynn 2)"The selectors have really gone overboard on the bits and pieces theory here. Has an England captain ever had a richer choice of bowlers?" points out Robin Hazlehurst, "Every player in this team apart from Ambrose has at least one ODI wicket to his name," crumbs that's true isn't it? How bizarre, "and given that all of them batting like a team of number nines, why not give each of them 5 overs and have a full team of all-rounders odds and sods." Yeah like the Ian Austin / Dougie Wright / Matthew Fleming / Adam Hollioake glory days. 23rd over: New Zealand 91-3 (Styris 39 Flynn 3)"Apologies for my confusion but I believe the Somerset police are still referred to as the 'Avon and Somerset Constabulary' and I'm sure there is still an ''Avon Fire and Rescue Service'" grumbles Robert Wickes. And indeed he's right. They've just not got the resources or funding to change the decals on the side of the vehicles. Cook Pass Babtridge. New Zealand have really slowed down here, the scoring rate a mere trickle as Broad and Swann tie up the middle overs. "G'ohn Scotty" bellows Flynn, callinh his partner through for a badly needed quick single. 24th over: New Zealand 96-3 (Styris 41 Flynn 6)Swann continues to whirl away, a little loop and little dip and a fine line make it a good tight over. Or so it seems until Flynn spoils things with a neat on drive for three. 25th over: New Zealand 103-3 (Styris 43 Flynn 11)Email of the day so far comes from Alex Webster: "On the off chance you want a Graeme Swann story…" on the off chance indeed, we'd lap it up... "He used to be my junior county captain at Northants, the county of the moment, Rose of the Shires. Anyway, he once started crying because he arrived late against Essex and wasn't let on the pitch by our officious team manager for the first few overs. His svengali-like dad, Ray, went mental. Think that was the only game where he didn't bowl all 20 overs from one end and open the batting. Still, he was miles better than everyone else." Poor old teenage Swanee, eh, he cares a lot. James Anderson is back on now, and he's almost cleaned Styris up with a great yorker, but he brought the bat down just in time. And a good shot by Flynn too, flicking the ball away through backward square for four. WICKET! Flynn 12 c Bell b Swann (26th over: New Zealand 106-4 (Styris 43 Oram 0)Bloody hell, just how many of you were in Brizzle on the razz last weekend,? "Joe Publics? Were they that group of lads who queue jumped then? Never got in to remonstrate! And I spent £55 watching them lose!" moans David Cotton. Yeah, they bought your girl a drink while you're back was turned too. Ah, Swann's got another one, Flynn top edging a sweep up into the air, making for a safe catch at mid-on. Bell celebrates like a chump by tossing the ball into the turf. New Zealand need 140 from 144 balls. 27th over: New Zealand 112-4 (Styris 50 Oram 1) Styris comes within a whisker of being caught at third man, but Graeme Swann's drive left him a touch short of making it. "In what sense is Luke Wright a better player than Mark Ealham? If we're going back to the bits and pieces days, let's bring back the chubby funster and have done with it." Good shout Tom Hopkins, that's the kind of backwards forwards thinking I love. Bring back Ealham. Frankly I'm appalled that his legendary 5-15 (all lbw) against Zimbabwe at Kimberly in 2000 hasn't been uploaded onto youtube. Styris meanwhile, slots Anderson's sixth ball through cover for four to move to 50. 28th over: New Zealand 119-4 (Styris 51 Oram 2) "A point on the shockingly titled MBargo. I don't think bars should encourage the dropping of e's." Boom boom Rob Betts, boom boom. Ambrose may just have missed a catch tickled down leg by Oram, I say may because the margins were so fine that no one can really tell. Either way the ball sped away for four. 29th over: New Zealand 123-4 (Styris 53 Oram 4) Collingwood brings himself on. I've now been sent 8 emails by one fellow who is so absurdly desperate to get onto the OBO that he must have money riding on it. Keep trying fella. He's milked, like the docile friesian he is. 30th over: New Zealand 135-4 (Styris 54 Oram 15) Oram drops to one knee and sweeps a fine four away to the rope. He repeats the shot moments later for four more. 13 from the over, and time to switch Swann off perhaps. 31st over: New Zealand 144-4 (Styris 55 Oram 21) An expensive over this one. Yeah OK, I didn't see it. 32nd over: New Zealand 153-4 (Styris 57 Oram 29) New Zealand 102 from 114 balls and on comes Ravi Bopara for what is, curiously, his first ball of the series. Or so Botham tells me. Tom Oxley seems to have decided that this is a confessional, and he's been doing some sinning: "I was at the Essex Sussex 20/20 last night and feel I have to apologise for my er... motivational slurrings at Neil Dexter. The on loan Kent-Essex man really was trying to concentrate and although Essex thumped Sussex he didn't need some cider-infused idiot (me) reminding him to "walk in," "keep concentrating" and "get it in hard." Actually the same apology could apply to Liam Plunkett at Lord's a couple of seasons back. A pattern is emerging, for which I am sorry." You're a bad man. Nine runs from this over, four of them from the last ball, which Oram ran through third man. 33rd over: New Zealand 164-4 (Styris 62 Oram 34) Sideshow Bob Sidebottom is back to try and drag England back into this game. Styris pops up on his toes and dabs four runs away from the first ball. New Zealand need 88 from 106 balls. Again it's four from the last ball of the over, and England are well on their way to losing this. 34th over: New Zealand 167-4 (Styris 64 Oram 36)And Stuart Broad is on too. Collingwood is casting about for a wicket here, desperate to break this ominous partnership. Clare Davies waffles "I am right there in touch with the zeitgeist. Well hardly. Popped out to the pharmacy to buy bleach and lavatory cleaner – well giving the bathroom a once-over is usually a good move when England are bowling. Come back and two wickets have gone" ah, you're behind the eight ball again Clare, England are losing now, that two wicket joy is so ten overs ago, "and I hear Alec Bedser is due a knighthood soon. Well that's nice, isn't it?" Really who told you that? The women behind the counter at Boots? WICKET! Oram 38 c Sub (Cook) b Anderson (35th over: New Zealand 173-5 (Styris 67 Elliott 0)Sidebottom is hauled off and Jimmy Anderson is back on. Styris flicks two out to leg. Moments later Anderson crumples into a heap clutching his buttocks, which had just got in the road of Collingwood's shy at the stumps, much to everyone else's amusement. But that's a fine comeback, he's made exactly the breakthrough that Collingwood brought him back for. He softened Oram up with one short ball, which popped up off the face of the bat towards silly point, and then removed him with the next one. It was another bouncer but this time Oram , ired, hooked the ball and was caught at long leg. 36th over: New Zealand 175-5 (Styris 68 Elliott 0)That was the last of Anderson's overs, he finished with 10-0-39-1. Grant Elliott, who played one of the most eyewateringly dull one-day innings I've ever seen in the last match, is in again. "Since you asked for tales of bad behaviour at twenty20 matches" Did I? I don't recall doing that Erik Petersen, "look, I don't have time to argue, but yes you did" oh "I should apologise to everyone else in my stand at Trent Bridge recently, including Nottingham Forest man James Perch, for having to endure me getting up at one point and singing the entire Miami Dolphins fight song. In my defence, it was my stag do and I was drinking gin." Erik actually added a written rendition of said 'Miami Dolphins fight song', so he obviously hasn't learned his lesson about inflicting it on people. So I cut it. WICKET! Styris 69 run out Swann/Collingwood (37th over: New Zealand 178-6 (Vettroi 0 Elliott 3)Collingwood is back on with New Zealand now needing 69 from 80 balls. 'Howzat?' cry England as Collingwood gather Swann's throw from the deep and whips off the bails. And he's out, he's gone. Great stuff by Swann to take the key man as he was pushing for a second run that should have been there if only he'd hustled. 38th over: New Zealand 185-6 (Vettori 1 Elliott 8)A rousing lbw shout from Swann, who has just returned to the attack. And that's unlucky... the ball turned through Elliott's gate past a stock-still Ambrose and away for four byes, though it was given as runs. WICKET! Vettori 6 c Bopara b Collingwood 39th over: New Zealand 190-7 (Elliott 8 Mills 0)Brilliant stuff by Bopara! An astonishing diving catch at short mid-wicket does for Vettori. That really was lovely to watch, even if it was a bit over-the-top, a real superman dive. New Zealand need 56 from 66 balls. This is going to be a corker of a finish. 40th over: New Zealand 195-7 (Elliott 8 Mills 1)Given that this is boiling down into a superbly gripping finale, this email from Finbar Anslow is especially useless, which is why I like it: "Just to let you know that a signorina managed to fry an egg on a car bonnet in Palermo last week! I tried doing the same in Milan but it just slithered off and left a horrible mess - the missus is not pleased" 41st over: New Zealand 204-7 (Elliott 12 Mills 1)Collingwood continues, Elliott taking three to the ambling Owais Shah at mid-wicket. And that's a four Elliott, ridden and flicked to third man for four. It's not great stuff from the England captain. "Listen pal," and I will, because Erik Peterson has already told us that he's a lairy drunkard, "I'm sorry if my fight song doesn't sound enough like something off a Wurtzels double-live album for you, but I can assure you it is real. It is the Miami Dolphins fight song, not 'the Miami Dolphins fight song' with the quote marks implying that it fits in the same category as 'the wish-granting unicorn' or 'the England one-day strategy'." Gulp. 42nd over: New Zealand 214-7 (Elliott 22 Mills 5) Elliott is in command here, and with Mills in such fine form it's not looking good for England. Swann goes for eight from the first three balls of this over, seven of them guided through third man. New Zealand need 32 from 48 balls. 43rd over: New Zealand 217-7 (Elliott 23 Mills 8) Cards on the table, hats in the ring, buns in the gullet and other such momentous nonsense: time for Broad and Sidebottom to see if one or the other can finally turn this around for England. They've two overs left each, and Broad is first on of the two. He can't do it though. These two just trickle the score onwards a little more. WICKET! Elliott 28 run out 44th over: New Zealand 220-8 (Mills 8) Now it's Ryan Sidebottom's turn to try and crack these two apart. Oh my... what's just happened? Extraordinary scenes at The Oval. England may have taken the crucial wicket of Elliott here, with a run out. The thing is that Elliott had been knocked to the turf by Ryan Sidebottom as he went for a run. He's down injured at the moment. And England have run him out while he was lying flat on the turf after he'd been shoulder-barged to earth by Sidebottom. Bizarre scenes. England were very very hesitant about making that appeal, they even conferred with the umpires about it afterwards. On the balcony New Zealand are disgusted, and Scott Styris is spitting curses at all and sundry. 45th over: New Zealand 227-8 (Mills 14 Southee 1) Ian Smith has blown this out of all proportion, comparing it to the famous under-arm ball incident involving Greg and Trevor Chappell. It was Pietersen who completed the run out, and clearly everyone is very uneasy about what's happened. The thing is that Elliott was on the turf, clearly injured, when the wicket was given. England are slightly shell-shocked by this, no one seems quite certain whether what they've done was within the spirit of cricket or not. New Zealand still need 21 from 33 balls, Mills having hooked four off his nose to fine leg. 46th over: New Zealand 232-8 (Mills 16 Southee 3) 19 needed now, from 30 balls. Southee taps two runs to mid-wicket. And a pair of singles trims the chase down further. "If I may paraphrase Rod Marsh," and indeed you may Howard Waddington: 'No, no Collingwood....you can't do that.'" That was, quite clearly, what umpire Mark Benson was thinking when the appeal went up. It was Sidebottom who made the appeal, and in his defence he was the man picking himself up off the floor, so he was clearly quite confused about what was happening. That's his final over of the spell, and he's taken 2 for 51. WICKET! Southee 6 run out 47th over: New Zealand 234-9 (Mills 16 Gillespie 1) Collingwood comes on with 14 needed. The eighth wicket has gone hasn't it? Yes! Southee goes, run out by a superb throw by Ian Bell, scoring a direct hit from short mid-wicket. Right then, 13 runs or one wicket, which will it be? Gillespie takes one to backward square first ball. "How is taking a runout when someone has been run into by your bowler and then is injured consistent with the spirit of cricket?" points out Cheri Powers, quite rightly, "The fact that Collingwood hesitated is a major clue - when in doubt, do without that particular runout." 48th over: New Zealand 234-9 (Mills 16 Gillespie 1) Swann is on, now what can he do here? 12 runs needed from 18 balls, with one wicket standing. Wow, Kelly Thornton is sharp: "I guess the same rules apply from the World T20 when Pietersen was barged out of the way by Pollock, right? That was ruled ok because it wasn't deliberate, so did Sidebottom look like he meant to knock him out of the way?" Exactly right. Sidebottom was going for the ball. A maiden! Yes, Gillespie has battled out a maiden. And he was actually dropped from the third ball, was he?, Yes, Ambrose missed another tickle behind off Swann. He's now bowled out to and New Zealand need 12 from 12. 49th over: New Zealand 243-9 (Mills 23 Gillespie 3) Collingwood takes the penultimate over, with all his front line bowlers now ineligible. Mills plays and misses the first two balls, the second passing through the gate and over the top of middle stump. Collingwood runs his hands over his face. 12 needed from 10, AND HE'S LEATHERED IT! WHAT A BLOODY SHOT THAT IS! SIX! Hooked off his nose over cow corner. Six needed from nine balls now. Sky are saying that went 106 metres, it certainly went more than a dozen rows back. The ball has got lost in the crowd. Collingwood pitches up the yorker and they take a single. Five needed from eight now. And Gillespie takes a singl to third man. Four runs needed from seven balls. And they've taken one from the last ball of the over. So then three runs from six balls will give New Zealand the game, and the last over is taken by Luke Wright... Wright of course did a great job in this situation in Napier... but the first ball is pulled away for one by Mills, looping off the toe of the bat. Two runs needed from five balls and all the England players stop to talk it over. Gillespie is on strike now, with two runs needed for the win. Wright runs in, and delivers a fine length ball, a triple-bluff! It's a dot. Another dot! Gillespie swung and ran, but was sent back! New Zealand need two from the last ball! And they've missed the throw! England have lost it on overthrows! Bloody hell! You might call it suitable justice after what happened earlier. What a game. England had no one backing up, and New Zealand snuck a second run after as the throw went wide. So New Zealand win by one wicket. An extraordinary game. Pointedly, the New Zealanders are refusing to shake hands with any of the England players. What a finish, what a game. I'd love to stay with you and talk it all over, but we're about to do some urgent tech work so I have to wrap it all up pronto. Thanks for your company and emails, and I'll see you soon. Hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. 