 The gloom that descended on Lord's yesterday evening, taking the players from the field for the final time in the first Test, was no more than Sri Lanka deserved. Underrated, inexperienced and in turmoil before and during the early part of the match, Mahela Jayawardene's side, digging deep into their reserves, national pride at stake, produced one of the great rearguard actions in the game's history. They were 359 behind England's first innings total when they followed on on Saturday. It would have required an epic performance against a side used to winning even to ensure that England's batsmen strapped their pads on again. Instead, inspired by Jayawardene, they exceeded all expectation and their own dreams by reaching 537 for nine, the highest second-innings score they have made and the highest by anyone at Lord's, surpassing, by a nice twist of fate, the 529 for five that England made against them four years ago when the sides last met. Play was eventually called off at 6.20pm, Jayawardene's man of the match award in the face of centuries from Marcus Trescothick and Kevin Pietersen a further acknowledgement of his side's achievement. This was an extraordinary team batting effort, however, with Jayawardene's century complemented by six further batsmen reaching half-centuries, only the third time in Tests that seven players have done so. Yesterday Tillekeratne Dilshan made 69, the young debutant seamer Nuwan Kulasekara, 64, and the veteran bowler Chaminda Vaas was unbeaten on 50 when the end came, having batted for almost 4¼ hours. The ninth-wicket partnership shared by Vaas and Kulasekara, worth 105 by the time the latter mistimed a pull off Matthew Hoggard to deep square-leg, occupied more than three hours and proved decisive. There was, even at the moment of Kulasekara's dismissal, still a chance that England might achieve the win that they almost accepted as a right after dominating the first two days. Thirty-six overs remained at that stage and, if a wicket had fallen in the next over, it would have left a target of 168 at around five runs per over, With England batting and therefore in control of their destiny regarding the light, it was gettable. So it was hard to understand the single delivery that Andrew Flintoff produced to Muttiah Muralitharan. With the light as it was, he had consulted the officials and may have known he had a single ball in which to end the innings and it ought to have been fast, straight and full. Instead he banged the ball in, Murali fended it down with his left glove and, as he inspected his fingers earnestly, the umpires offered the chance to go off. It was not the cleverest delivery that Flintoff had bowled during the innings and, although the players were to return briefly, too many overs had been lost. For England it has been a chastening experience, watched dolefully throughout by Duncan Fletcher. Did his side really get too far ahead of themselves on a euphoric Friday evening when Sajid Mahmood had helped reduce Sri Lanka to 86 for six in response to England's 551 for six and Kevin Pietersen, gushing after his hundred, said what a change it was to be so dominant and that "hopefully we'll definitely win"? On Saturday there were few people who did not entertain the thought of the match finishing there and then and, had the blight of dropped catches that was to hit England for the rest of the game not taken hold, it may well have done. But chances went begging, with three more yesterday - easy ones to Flintoff at slip and Alastair Cook in the gully, and a sharper one to Paul Collingwood in the gully late - taking the match total to nine. That is simply unacceptable (imagine that next winter or last summer ). On that basis alone they did not deserve to win. Flintoff himself did not enjoy the best match as captain for, although he retained his humour throughout and did not stint on effort to lead from the front, he seemed to lose touch with the flow of the match. On Sunday, uncharacteristically, he fell too readily into the defensive mode that had boundary fielders where attacking fields surely were needed (was this his own idea or that of the coach?) and yesterday, when Kulasekara first came to the crease and was ill at ease against the short ball, there was no fielder perched at short-leg or silly point until too late. The claims of Monty Panesar to be given even a bowl, never mind a long one, were ignored yesterday until the third new ball was imminent and not given much more than a last-ditch airing later. It would be wrong to make a judgment on Flintoff's credentials on this basis, given that only weeks ago, in Mumbai, we were singing his leadership praises. The England bowlers will feel aggrieved that they did not receive the backing in the field that their own efforts demanded. Sri Lanka rode their luck, as the ball snaked past the bat on countless occasions. Liam Plunkett and Hoggard, who by the finish was reduced to bowling bouncers to relieve his frustration, will send down many worse overs for better return and, if it seams at Edgbaston in the second Test, it may be a different matter. England should still win the series. They know they have goofed, though. There is much to get right before then. 