 At Harrow St Mary's Cricket Club today's pre-season preparations for the coming summer were a little different to what you might find elsewhere. Angus Fraser was up on a stepladder, sanding down the pavilion timbers, Shaun Udal was slapping a lick of white paint on the window frames and Steve Finn was mooching about signing autographs for dozens of chirruping schoolkids. Inside the pavilion, alongside a humming tea urn and paper plates of curling sandwiches, sat Andrew Strauss. His first duty as England captain in a year that will define his leadership was appearing at the NatWest Cricket Force launch for 2010, and understandably enough his thoughts were fixed on two things: the series he has just sat out, and the twin peaks of the Ashes and World Cup that loom in the middle-distance. The two things are, Strauss insists, tied together. "The decision for me to rest wasn't to do with my state of mind at the end of the South African tour, it was to do with what is to come. If I hadn't had a rest then it would have been a continuous treadmill up to the Ashes and beyond into the World Cup as well. "While the Bangladesh tour was going on I was thinking that it would be nice to be out there with the lads, but I genuinely believe that the benefits of taking this time off will only be seen later on in the summer and into the winter. You've got to take it on the chin and say that while it would have been nice to be out there, I will be heading into the season feeling very refreshed. "Come the Ashes we are going to need as much energy and enthusiasm as we can muster. So I still believe that it has been the right decision in terms of the long-term interests of the England side." Strauss is quick to insist the decision to skip the tour "was not taken unilaterally" but was something he, coach Andy Flower and managing director Hugh Morris had been discussing for a long time. If anything he gives the impression that if it had been his call alone, he would have gone on tour. "When you do something different there is always going to be criticism," he said. "I can understand the argument that as a captain you should be with the team all the time. That's a valid point. But we have to look at how we can get the best out of our players. We've got the Ashes and the World Cup. We need to be peaking then, and you have got to look at how best to do that." Strauss did not get up at 3am every day to follow England's fortunes, but kept a close eye on the Test series. "It was strange watching them go out on the field, but I knew the team was in safe hands. Alastair Cook did an excellent job. It was his show and he should take great credit for what they have achieved." One or two congratulatory text messages aside, he says he left Cook to his own devices, contenting himself with taking a few notes of his own on what he saw. "Steve Finn was very impressive. And Tim Bresnan really enhanced his credentials with the way he bowled and batted." Otherwise he has spent his time working in the gym. He will be playing for Middlesex at the start of the season, and starts his batting practice with them on Monday. He found the time to take a proper break, too. Though given what is coming up next winter Australia seems an odd choice of destination for the four-week holiday he took. Anticipation of the Ashes, he chuckles "was bubbling up quite nicely". In eight months' time it will be on a rolling boil. Only then, he says, will we realise that England were right to rest him. "As England captain you are going to get criticised but that doesn't mean you deviate away from what you think is the right thing to do. You stick to your guns and hopefully, over time, you are proved correct." 