 Amazing stuff. Report to follow. For now, I’m signing off from the blog. Thanks for your company. Amazing scenes. Another finals day - the KSL - for me in 12 hours time! Turrah! And here’s the match report. Updated
 Kleinveldt slaps to leg and they are home! Five balls to spare, five wickets down. Remarkable scenes, with heavy rain falling. Brilliant. Congrats to Northamptonshire! Updated
 Cobb goes! But surely Northants have this?! He slogs and nicks behind. 80 off 48 balls. What a knock. Edgbaston stands. 6 required off 13. 
 25 needed off 31, as Wakely survives when it looked like he was caught in the deep, but next ball he goes for a run and is run out by Arshad from close range. Stand was 120. 
 Oh my word... this is massive That is MASSIVE! @NorthantsCCC's @cobby24 absolutely creams one to reach his 50! 💥 #boom #FinalsDay #Blast16 pic.twitter.com/75wPtuXaDS 
 That’ll be about the time I’m under the pump with deadline, so you may not miss *too* much... @willis_macp Been with you and TMS for every ball today but I'm sensing I'll miss the last 2 overs taking daughter to work. O the inhumanity 
 Agree If you look through when & where Josh Cobb performs, you realise he's actually quite a clutch cricketer. Proper "none given" attitude, too. 
 Northants, despite that early wobble are ahead of DLS. Cobb is playing a blinder, and has 43 off 23, and absolutely pumped Borthwick for six over cow recently. Wakely is battling for fluency. Time for some Wood, I reckon. 68 for 3, and 86 required off 66. 
 Cobb smacks a waist-high full toss from Arshad for six, and then skews the resultant free hit for four over third man, who is up. It’s 46 for three at the end of the powerplay, little rebuild on. 108 required from 14, still could go either way. Your 1st ball. In a final. What do you do? If you're @MAWood33, this... 😮 😍 👏 #FinalsDay https://t.co/r7NbhQswGF 
 Phil Sawyer’s been in touch on the emails! “You know what I’ve enjoyed most about finals day, Will?” he says, catching my attention, “It’s been a bowlers’ day. Rather than a batters’ run fest. As a fully paid up member of the bowler’s union, it has been most enjoyable that finals day has not been dominated by six after six after six. I realise that this may not be what the ECB or even the viewing public want. But I bloody love it.” Likewise. What a day! 
 OUT! NEXT BALL! Cobb edges short of second slip, and Levi calls a run, Badger Borthwick picks up, throws the stumps down and it’s 4 for two. Levi is so slow.  
 Wood hits a four through cover to become the first non-Stokes or Jennings batsman in this innings to hit a boundary. Defendable, but not formidable. They defended 156, earlier... 
 There’s a naked man running round the Hollies as Borthwick nicks behind for 10 off 12, the highlight of which was a massive top edge for two. Wood out for a bat. 
 Jennings goes for 88. Kleinveldt, bowling the 19th, went round the wicket and the last ball has gone straight down deep square’s throat. 88 off 58, the highest individual score on finals day, with five fours and four sixes. For context, he’d hit three sixes in T2os ever before today, and had a highest score of 42. 142-7 Updated
 HIGHEST SCORE EVER IN FINALS DAY FOR JENNINGS. HE’S GOT 87 AND HAS LEFT DARREN MADDY AND CRAIG SPEARMAN TRAILING IN HIS WAKE. SHAME ON THEM 
 Fair play, especially as I keep calling him Gleeson ATL Ben Sanderson finishes with 3-31 to go with his 2-21 from the semi. Superb day considering he's hardly played a white ball game this year. 
 Shot! Jennings smokes it down the ground for the sweetest of sixes. He and Stokes are the only ones to hit boundaries so far. 
 What. A. Catch. Josh Cobb’s got rid of Pringle, who belted it towards extra cover off Sanderson. Cobb dived full stretch to his left and, two-handed, took a belter. 105-6 after 15.1, Borthwick in. 
 Levi’s just done a funny thing at midwicket. Pringle has prodded it towards him and he’s jumped - maybe a centimetre or two off the ground - to attempt the catch, and just sort of propped it over the bar. No hang time, and it’s a drop, I’m afraid. 93 for five. Updated
 Colly has gone. Caught at deep square by White off Sanderson. He’s actually just not got the guns these days to clear boundaries that big. 89 for five. Jennings so, so key now.  
 Oh dear. Steven Crook’s dropped a caught and bowled off Jennings on 43. He’s just clothed it back to him. Down. 84 for four off 12. 
 Tasty from Keaton Jennings, gotta admit I didn’t know he had that in him. First, he ramps Crook for four, and then White is handsomely driven over long-on a la - whisper it - ben Stokes. After a couple of nurdles, he is 44 off 34, and Durham are 79 for four. Don’t think Gary thinks much of this: Not sure dibbly-dobblers bowling to batsmen working it around behind a TV paywall, is what was intended when T20 was launched @willis_macp 
 Oh Durham, that is a shocker. Jennings plays a beautifully deft reverse off Cobb, and Azharullah scampers down to save a boundary. Burnham commits to the third, and it’s quite a good throw that Rossington gathers, very sharply, and beats the sliding bat. 49 for four. Don’t imagine Collingwood thought he’d be in in the eighth. 
 Richardson gone now, feathering behind off Crook. Think he nicked it. 43 for three, Burnham in, with a bit of work to do. 