 The 20-year-old Rory Hamilton-Brown is already no stranger to bold decisions. At the beginning of last season the right-handed batsman opted to leave Surrey and join the county champions, Sussex, having already made the difficult career move to put cricket before rugby union. The switch to Sussex was no damning indictment of Surrey - Rory just felt there was a greater potential to learn with other younger players. Peter Moores, whom he had benefited from at the England academy, had founded an impressive work ethic at Sussex which the current coach, Mark Robinson, has built upon. Hard work is something Rory unflinchingly believes in. He quite rightly felt that Sussex were a club going places and were well led by Chris Adams. He was still only 19 when he joined but showed a real maturity in his decision-making. He had been a full-back in rugby and his best friend is Danny Cipriani, the England fly-half, whom he grew up with. Their standing joke is that he taught Danny how to kick a rugby ball and Cipriani showed him how to hit a cricket ball. But when D-day came it was cricket that swung Rory's mind; it was Surrey rather than Harlequins who would shape his future. It was a tricky choice, given that all his mates had played union with him within the England age-group system. Rory felt more confidence that cricket would bring the best out of him, that he would be given more time to find his feet. And besides, he was a better cricketer than a rugby player. And he certainly has found his feet at Sussex. The key, almost career-defining, moment came for him early this season in a Friends Provident match when he scored 35. His chance had come through injuries and player unavailability, but mentally this was a big day. His confidence took a great leap. Then he got his chance in the championship through Adams' absence and he took it with both hands, scoring 62 against Durham. When he got in Sussex were 79 for five with Steve Harmison at his most frighteningly quick. He knew there was no alternative but to knuckle down - that hard work ethic served him well. And he really enjoyed the challenge. His mantra as a batsman is "Go to off stump early and stand still" and "count the runs". He is determined to approach the game simply; he will not over-complicate his technique by borrowing aspects of others' styles. Don't be too precise, keep it simple. Easy to say but not to do. Rory is a promising all-rounder but he needs to work on his off spin if he wants to reach the level he is aiming at. One ambition is to be a first-choice one-day spinner but I feel he should think higher and be a first-choice Championship bowler too. His fielding is exemplary; he is very fit and athletic. He is in the Sussex Twenty20 and one-day teams for his fielding - I can relate to that; it's how I started. You just revel in your involvement in big-time cricket. The most impressive aspect about Rory is his determination and mental toughness. Many with his comfortable background might not need to show such commitment, but his dream is to play for England, and you wouldn't bet against it. Age 20 Born London Educated Millfield Teams England U19, Surrey, Sussex Bats Right-handed Bowls Off spin Height 6ft  Technique 7/10  Power 8/10 Shot selection 6/10 Temperament 9/10 Fielding 9/10 Fitness 9/10 