 Monty Panesar has been included in England's 16-man pre-Ashes training squad to be held later this week, but there was no place for former England captain Michael Vaughan or Steve Harmison among the group who will take on Warwickshire in a three-day warm-up match at Edgbaston on 1 July. "Michael Vaughan will, of course, be disappointed not to have been included. But I met with Michael recently and he understands that he needs to make runs consistently in county cricket if he is to force his way back into the squad," said the ECB's national selector Geoff Miller. "We will continue to consider players outside the 16 chosen for the camp and will closely monitor performances in domestic cricket as the international season progresses. The door has not been closed on any player at this stage. "The pre-Ashes camp is designed to give Andy Flower and the rest of the management team an opportunity to meet with the players ahead of their series and begin their preparations in earnest. "We are pleased to welcome Andrew Flintoff and Ryan Sidebottom back to the Test squad after recovering from injury and Adil Rashid's inclusion reflects our view that he is maturing all the time as a cricketer and has the potential to develop still further." The selection of Northamptonshire spinner Panesar suggests England are keen to consider all options before finalising their attack. "We have chosen two spinners in our side to face Warwickshire, but this does not necessarily mean that we will opt for the same balance in our bowling attack in the first npower Ashes Test. An extra pace bowler still remains an option for our starting line-up at Cardiff," continued Miller. The selectors named Ian Bell as captain of the England Lions team for the four-day tour match against Australia at Worcester also starting on 1 July. "In choosing the two teams for the matches at Edgbaston and Worcester, we were also mindful of the need to field a very strong England Lions side against Australia and the inclusion of four bowlers with Test Match experience and Ian Bell as captain demonstrates this," said Miller. "We are keen to make the match at Worcester a tough one for Australia and plan to give all the players in the Lions team the maximum opportunity to press their case for selection. As a consequence, we will now be announcing our squad for the 1st npower Ashes Test on Sunday 5 July – 24 hours later than originally planned." 1) Andrew Strauss (captain) (Middlesex) 2) James Anderson (Lancashire) 3) Ian Bell (Warwickshire) 4) Ravinder Bopara (Essex) 5) Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire) 6) Stuart Broad (Nottinghamshire) 7) Paul Collingwood (Durham) 8) Alastair Cook (Essex) 9) Andrew Flintoff (Lancashire) 10) Graham Onions (Durham) 11) Monty Panesar Northamptonshire) 12) Kevin Pietersen (Hampshire) 13) Matt Prior (Sussex) 14) Adil Rashid (Yorkshire) 15) Ryan Sidebottom (Nottinghamshire) 16) Graeme Swann (Nottinghamshire) 1) Andrew Strauss (captain) 2) James Anderson 3) Stuart Broad 4) Ravi Bopara 5) Paul Collingwood 6) Alastair Cook 7) Andrew Flintoff 8) Monty Panesar 9) Kevin Pietersen 10) Matt Prior 11) Graeme Swann 1) Ian Bell (captain) (Warwickshire) 2) Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire) 3) Joe Denly (Kent) 4) Steven Davies (Worcestershire) 5) Stephen Harmison (Durham) 6) Sajid Mahmood (Lancashire) 7) Stephen Moore (Worcestershire) 8) Eoin Morgan (Middlesex) 9) Graham Onions (Durham) 10) Adil Rashid (Yorkshire) 11) Vikram Solanki (Worcestershire) 