 Andrew Flintoff is set for a shock return to first-team action tomorrow after scoring 56 for Lancashire seconds today in his first match for seven weeks. His county captain, Stuart Law, says Flintoff is ready to play against Yorkshire in the Twenty20 Cup, although that decision could provoke criticism that Lancashire are rushing him back before he is fully fit. "He seems ready to go and he is not far away from being fit," Law said. "He is coming down to train and to line up with us tomorrow as if he is playing, and if we decide to throw him in then we will. Twenty20 would be a great way to come in because he only bowls four overs and if you bat you would not be batting for more than 10 to 15 overs, so it is perfect cricket really." The announcement will raise questions as to whether Flintoff is being given enough time to recover from the side-strain that has caused him to miss both the Test and one-day international series against New Zealand. Flintoff suffered a side-strain while bowling against Durham in an LV County Championship fixture on May 9, but is eager to prove he can still be in contention for an England place in the Lord's Test against South Africa beginning on July 10. It had been assumed Flintoff would play in this current fixture against Durham second XI at Alderley Edge CC and another second-team game next week before playing for the first team. But Law was impressed by Flintoff's batting and dismissed suggestions that a Flintoff return against Yorkshire would be too far ahead of schedule. "I am gauged by him," Law said. "He will tell me when he is good to go and if he can't do anything he will let me know. I am not going to be stupid with it, he will tell us but if we see fit to put him in straightaway we will do that. One thing we don't want to do is get him back too early. Fred is desperate to play but unfortunately he doesn't know how to play at 70%. He will only ever give 100%, so if he snaps again then it is another six weeks and we don't want to do that to him." 