 Will Macpherson I’ll sign off with this. What a remarkable day’s cricket. What a remarkable competition. Paul Weaver’s report is below and mine and Graham’s will follow.  Not a bad 7-ball spell from @surreycricket's 18-year-old star @CurranSM ➡️ WW•W4•W 😮 https://t.co/Wc99MywpH6 Have a wonderful evening, and we look forward to hearing from you tomorrow! 
 Will Macpherson Malan and Simpson survived until stumps, but it was seriously tough work. Middlesex lead by 140, and have six first innings wickets in hand. All four results possible. Who you backing, folks? 
 Elsewhere, it looks like they won’t get back on at the Riverside, where Durham are 247 ahead, with two in hand.  Glamorgan are on the ropes against promoted Essex, Gloucestershire are in trouble at Northampton, and Wayne Madsen is approaching a ton as Derbyshire set the game up against Leicestershire. 
 Will Macpherson Really tough going for Middlesex, this. Simpson has spent 14 balls on 0, while Malan has 10 from 51. Kerrigan bowling beautifully. 
 Right, Middlesex will go into the final round leading the Championship. With how many points is anyone’s guess right now. But. Yorkshire will be second: 204 Somerset will be third: 203 
 Will Macpherson Compton is out. It was a fairly painful innings, to be honest. 10 off 46 and gone lbw to Kerrigan. Middlesex are 39 for three, and this game is right in the balance. 
 Graham Hardcastle They have bowled Yorkshire out for 286, with Jack Leach claiming 6-64. He has just got Liam Plunkett caught at slip. There are 19 overs remaining in the day.  
 Will Macpherson Sam Robson is gone. Middlesex lead by 104. It was Kerrigan’s first ball, and he looked to step across and hoick him to leg, but has been trapped in front. 36 for two. 
 Graham Hardcastle Breakthrough for Somerset as Jack Leach takes his fourth wicket of the day, with Jake Lehmann lbw sweeping for a superb 116. That has left Yorkshire at 263-8, a lead of 18. Former housemates Liam Plunkett and Jack Brooks at the crease now.  
 Paul Weaver And at Hove Worcestershire have beaten Sussex by 11 runs in a highly entertaining game. Archer was caught at second slip by Daryl Mitchell off Cummins for 16, Danny Briggs was well taken by D’Oliveira at square-leg off the same bowler, with 12 still needed, and Cummins finished off the match when he yorked Steve Magoffin’s middle stump first ball. Cummins finished with five for 82, and had match figures of 12 for 166. 
 Two in two balls wrapped up an amazing 11-run win for Worcestershire at Hove. Look forward to reading what Paul has to say. What a game. 
 Will Macpherson Kyle Jarvis’s first over has done the trick as Nick Gubbins edged to second slip without scoring. Having not recorded a duck all season, Gubbins has one in each of Middlesex’s last two first innings. Sam Robson struck two boundaries in Bailey’s first over, and Middlesex are 11 for one. 
 Paul Weaver Something heroic has been happening here this afternoon. Phil Salt, driving, was caught at mid-off for 17 and when Ollie Robinson was run out for 42, having his middle stump thrown out by Brett D’Oliveira, Sussex were floundering at 113 for six. Their target of 272 looked like a speck on the horizon, down the road by the sea. But then Chris Jordan and David Wiese added 114 in 23 overs. When Jordan was seventh out, caught behind off Cummins for 50, his second half-century of the mach, Sussex were just 45 short of victory. Jofra Archer has joined Wiese and has made a confident start. 
 Graham Hardcastle Yorkshire are threatening a comeback. Still a long way to go, but the mood on the terraces has been lifted markedly by a 94-run stand between unbroken pair Jake Lehmann and Liam Plunkett, who have 112 and 50 respectively in a score of 256-7. The hosts lead by 11 runs at tea.  
 Will Macpherson Rob Jones has become the youngest batsman to carry his bat for Lancashire since Cyril Washbrook in 1935. Remarkable. Lester is bowled by Rayner and Lancs are all out for 259. Middlesex’s lead is 68, it’s tea, and there are 35 overs left in the day. Every Middlesex batsman shook Jones’s hand as he left the field. 
 Finn gets his man! Kerrigan lbw but it looked to me like it might have been going down. Anyway, that is Middlesex’s vital third bowling point, but Lancs have a vital second batting point too.  
 TWO IN TWO FOR FINN: @finnysteve strikes again with @thecompdog taking the catch at 3rd slip to get rid of Jarvis👍🏼 pic.twitter.com/49KTAD4PnY 
 Will Macpherson Wow! Rob Jones! That is outstanding. The man was back on the long-on fence, and he’s skipped down and hit it over his head for six. That’s the second time he’s done that to Rayner today. That was his 276th ball, and he’s gone absolutely gorillas on bringing it up, waving his bat at the Lancashire balcony. What an effort. It’s 240 for eight. 
 Graham Hardcastle Jake Lehmann has reached a fine century off 168 balls with 11x4s. Excellent knock and the first ton of the match. Yorkshire are now 225-7, trailing by 20.  
 Will Macpherson Two in two! Jarvis fends a Finn snorter straight to gully. One wicket for that point, seven runs for Jones’s ton... 
 Will Macpherson Wicket! Bailey edges Finn to Robson at slip. A stand of 88 ends, and out comes Kyle Jarvis. Two more wickets for a third bowling point for Middlesex; absolutely vital that they get it, I reckon. 
 Will Macpherson Tom Bailey has 50! He’s dug in but played a few more shots lately, and reaches the milestone off 125 balls with a top edge over the slips off Finn. Jones has 90, and Lancs are only 101 behind. 
 Graham Hardcastle Yorkshire have reached 200-7, and they trail by just 45 now. Surely they can’t put pressure on, can they? Jake Lehmann has made his way to 89, sparking a colleague to look up Darren’s statistics in a Yorkshire shirt. Jake’s old man scored a staggering 26 hundreds in 88 first-class matches.  
 Will Macpherson A batting point for Lancs! Gee, that looked unlikely around about this time yesterday. Jones has 88. Middlesex will not want to leave a bowling point out there ... 
 Two coaches among Leicestershire’s three subs. UPDATE | Pierre de Bruyn has now joined Dieter Klein and Andrew McDonald in the field! 
 Graham Hardcastle Jack Leach strikes again with the help of Tom Abell, who has taken a very good left-handed diving catch at short-leg to get rid of Andrew Hodd. Yorkshire are now 162-7.  
 Will Macpherson Middlesex are displaying quite how much they want this new ball by bringing on Dawid Malan for a brief bowl. 3 overs until it’s available and it’s 173-6. 