 Adil Rashid is among a trio of uncapped players named in the 26-man England performance squad for this summer's international season. Fellow international debutants Michael Carberry and James Tredwell join Rashid in the squad, which incorporates 12 centrally contracted players, the England and Wales Cricket Board confirmed today. Of the newcomers it is Rashid that will most heighten the sense of anticipation surrounding the summer fixture list. The Yorkshire all-rounder made his championship debut against Warwickshire in July 2006, aged just 18. He served notice of his talent as a leg-spinner by taking a wicket on the opening day, with just his eighth delivery in first-class cricket, before claiming six for 67 in the second innings. An England U19 call-up came after Rashid consolidated a regular place in the Yorkshire side, rapidly followed by selection for the England A and, in July 2007, England Lions sides. Rashid was named young cricketer of the year by the Cricket Writers' Club as well as PCA Young Player of the Year for 2007, and his EPS selection sees the upward momentum of his career continue unabated. Rashid will line up alongside Hampshire's Carberry, another former England U19 and Lions player, and Kent off-spinner Tredwell, who was named in the England one-day squad for this year's tour of New Zealand. Robert Key, the Kent opener who has not featured at international level since England's 2004-5 tour to South Africa, has also been selected. "The EPS is designed to allow [the England coach] Peter Moores to closely monitor the development of international players and better prepare them for the demands of the international game," said the national selector Geoff Miller. "The selectors can name up to 30 players in the EPS, but we have decided to keep four places vacant at present to give ourselves greater flexibility and we will reserve the right to add further players to the squad if their performances in domestic cricket merit it. "We were delighted with the progress made by several of our younger players during the winter both with the full England side and the England Lions but have decided not to award six-month summer contracts to any individuals at this stage of the season. "The awarding of contracts is based on our assessment of a player's performance in international cricket over a period of time and we can, of course, opt to award contracts on a pro-rata basis during the middle of the domestic international season if appropriate." 