 For those with a scant regard for their bank balance, Michael Vaughan can be found on a Saturday morning offering up betting tips on social media. “Man Utd, Chelsea, West Brom and Bolton … #Kerching #NoBrainer” was last weekend’s offering – just two out of four were correct, as it happens. But while the “Vaughan Quad”, as he calls it, may not be a sure-fire road to riches, the former Test captain-turned-media pundit may yet be the man who fronts the more footballing model that the England and Wales Cricket Board is looking at following Wednesday’s defenestration of the managing director Paul Downton. The newly announced role of director of England cricket – a position yet to be codified in the form of a job description – is not a rebrand of the same job held by Downton. This apparently clean kill by the new ECB chief executive Tom Harrison was not simply an HR-friendly way of booting out an unwanted employee via the redundancy route. Harrison, despite travelling down the road of corporate speak when he gave a polished, open-collared interview to Sky Sports in the immediate aftermath of handing Downton his P45, intends to make the new position much simpler and thus more accountable for results. The multiple areas of responsibility that made a former City man such as Downton one of the few who could fit the job in October 2013 – overseeing million-pound budgets, the coordination of all England teams and the National Academy at Loughborough – will be stripped away or reallocated to leave one individual solely in charge of creating a successful senior men’s side. In old money, a manager. Such a concentration of power is certainly a lurch from what this year’s Wisden shrewdly dubbed the “nexus of self-preservation” just hours before Downton’s 14-month tenure was terminated. Harrison, the former IMG media rights man, is known to be big on openness and transparency. You can add accountability to the mix now, too. So do not be surprised by a shake-up of the selection panel approach. The current model that has James Whitaker, Angus Fraser, Mick Newell and the head coach Peter Moores making decisions by committee is currently being queried by the ECB’s new power brokers, especially in light of the disastrous World Cup. The talk behind the scenes of replacing them with scouts, while the new overseer and his captain pick the team, is getting also louder. The first name linked with a vacancy in football is often not the one who gets it, of course. But Vaughan did not become the frontrunner for director of England cricket within minutes of the news breaking simply because the 40-year-old former batsman happened to be in the Sky studios at the time. Vaughan’s lucrative media commitments, which appear a hurdle any ECB interest would need to overcome, have in recent months seen him be less than subtle on the topic. On 12 March, after arriving in Australia for punditry work at the World Cup, he told local reporters that former players needed greater input into the England side and revealed he been involved in “one or two brief conversations recently”. In a webchat for the BBC website eight days later, he outlined his vision for a new England setup, claiming the MD and chairman of selectors should be replaced by a single person who worked with a head coach, while his columns for the Telegraph have repeatedly stressed the need to take the emphasis away from coaching cricketers at the top level and focus more on man-management. Close friends Geoffrey Boycott and Steve Harmison – himself a football manager these days, bizarrely – also put his name forward for such a role before its creation. And do not forget, Vaughan has the ear of the incoming ECB chairman Colin Graves, having sat alongside him on the board at Yorkshire since 2012. Any ascension would not be without problems, with the Test captain Alastair Cook privately unhappy with Vaughan’s criticism of his leadership in recent times and his very public backing of a Kevin Pietersen comeback since the door creaked slightly ajar for the exiled batsman at the start of March. Moores would not survive either, with Vaughan having struggled to work as captain during his first spell from 2007 to 2008 and recently going on the record to state the former Lancashire man should be removed from working with the full national side and instead take a job with the youngsters. Graves is known to be disappointed that the previous regime allowed both Vaughan and Andrew Strauss – two Ashes-winning captains – to retire from cricket and walk straight into the commentary box. And it is something of an oddity the experience of someone like the Surrey director of cricket Alec Stewart, England’s second most-capped cricketer, has never been tapped by the international team since retiring in 2003. None of those three names would come with guarantees of being able to turn around the hulking great tanker that is the England cricket team. They all look better bets for success than a Vaughan Quad on a Saturday afternoon though. 