 One of the advantages of having a partner who isn't especially interested in sport comes in the form of observations that are stripped bare of the fake patinas that we aficionados love to add on. Soon after Sachin Tendulkar's unbeaten 96 had guided India to the easiest of victories in Cuttack, I was thinking out loud: "How does he still motivate himself to go to such venues and score runs?" She looked perplexed for a moment. "Don't people go to watch the games there?" she asked. "Do they pay less money to get in?" Touché. When you follow a sport like cricket, steeped in tradition, it's easy to succumb to what I call the Houses-of-the-Holy syndrome. When a batsman makes a century or a bowler bowls a game-changing spell at a venue like Lord's, the MCG, Eden Gardens, the Wanderers or the Kensington Oval, there's a tendency to imbue it with mythical qualities. A hundred made at the Barabati Stadium or the Arbab Niaz in Peshawar isn't viewed in quite the same rose-tinted way. Tendulkar, though, scoffs at this particular form of snobbery. For years now, he has been a disciple of the first commandment that the great Bill Shankly preached; that it's "their [the players'] privilege to play for you [the fans]". Unlike the big-time Charlies who came to English football and became mice among men during trips to the wintry wastes of Wearside and north Lancashire, he has made it his business to score runs wherever he goes. His 45 one-day hundreds have been distributed across 31 different venues, with Colombo's Premadasa Stadium having been witness to four, including his first way back in 1994. The 43 Test centuries have been spread across 30 venues. Apart from the absence of a Test hundred in Zimbabwe and a limited-overs one in the Caribbean, there are no gaps in the résumé. In 2009, despite India's threadbare Test schedule and being absent from a few one-day games, he has already amassed 1,505 runs, 964 of them in coloured clothes. Each of the three one-day centuries has been memorable. The 163 not out in Christchurch lit the touchpaper for a tour of New Zealand from which India returned triumphant in both forms of the game. In Colombo in September, he scored 138 from 133 balls to win a tri-nation tournament. And at Hyderabad two months later, he produced one of his greatest-ever innings (175 from 141 balls) against the side that he has always saved his best for, Australia. Unfortunately for him, the rest of the team chose that day to emulate some of their spineless predecessors, falling down in an ugly heap around him. There were some murmurs of dissent from fans the other night, with poor Dinesh Karthik being skewered for not being more scoreboard-conscious. But the old-timers in Cuttack had already seen him make a hundred, more than a decade ago, in an era when the old firm of Tendulkar and Kambli was expected to lead India to World Cup glory. Tendulkar himself won't lose sleep over a landmark missed. He has more important things on his mind, like another World Cup on the subcontinent. He was just starting to obliterate school records when Graeme Gooch swept India out in the semi-final of 1987, and nine years later, his magnificent riposte after Aravinda de Silva's minor masterpiece on a minefield of a pitch was largely forgotten because of the collapse and rioting that followed. Perhaps no other cricketer has been so conscious of the legacy that he leaves behind. Having saved a Test match at Old Trafford as a 17-year-old, he then had to endure a decade of veiled insinuations that his batting wasn't really up to snuff in moments of crisis. Despite averaging 10 runs more in the fourth innings of matches than Steve Waugh – did anyone ever call him a choker? – Tendulkar's fallibility was constantly highlighted, with the epic 136 at Chennai in 1999 (India fell 12 runs short) the main exhibit. It was perhaps poetic justice then that he returned to the same ground to draw a line under such loose talk. At Chennai last December India needed 387 to beat England over the final four sessions. No team had ever chased down even 300 on Indian pitches, and 246 were still needed when he came to the crease on the final morning. He walked off 317 minutes later with an unconquered 103, as India romped home with more than an hour to spare. Another box had been ticked in Australia earlier that year, with a century and 91 ensuring that India were the last team to win the tri-series that was once such an integral part of the Australian sporting summer. But the last page still needs to be written, and that can only happen on home turf at the Wankhede Stadium on 2 April 2011. When someone suggested a few years ago that Tom Moody wasn't a big enough name to coach India, a friend of mine said: "He still has two World Cup winners' medals that Tendulkar doesn't have." The man himself is acutely aware of that, and if India can solve their new-ball woes over the next 12 months, the Cinderella ending is still very much possible. So what is it that has kept him going this long? A few years ago, when talking about his first matches in the India cap, he told me: "To be honest, I remember little of my first tour of Pakistan. I was just so excited to be part of the Indian team. I just wanted to go out and play as much as possible." When I suggested that not much had changed, he just smiled. That boundless enthusiasm, rather than the mountains of runs and all those centuries, is at the heart of his greatness. Instead of focusing too much on that pristine back-foot punch through the covers, it's the attitude that every young player should emulate. Cuttack or Lord's, those that pay to watch deserve only the best. 