 With Shane Warne, much to his chagrin, Down Under preparing for a three-day 'boot camp' in the Queensland Outback with the rest of the Australia squad, his title-chasing Hampshire team were doing their best to avoid defeat by Warwickshire at the Rose Bowl. A clatter of wickets either side of tea, however, left the visiting side in sight of a third successive championship victory. After a listless first-innings display that had resulted in them following on 166 in arrears on a largely reliable pitch - although the odd ball from the Pavilion End misbehaved yesterday - Hampshire resumed on 27 for one. But they lost two crucial wickets in the space of four balls to leave them wobbling on 52 for three. First, Jimmy Adams was caught behind, aiming an expansive drive at a wide ball from Heath Streak that he should have left alone. As if that were not enough for Hampshire, whose title hopes suffered a setback on Friday when fellow title contenders Sussex demolished Durham inside three days, John Crawley, whose eleven previous championship innings had yielded five centuries, departed four balls later. And it was in the cruellest fashion, when he was run out at the non-striker's end after Streak's outstretched right hand deflected a drive by Chris Benham on to the stumps. Although no blame was attached to Benham, the 23-year-old, who is out of contract at the end of the season, performed with aplomb as he and Dominic Thornely added 159 for the fourth wicket to steer Hampshire into the lead. Benham, whose previous highest first-class score was 74, drove and swept his way to a 55-ball fifty, Thornely advancing to a half-century from 65 balls. But Hampshire's hopes of escaping with a draw suffered when Streak dismissed both batsmen in rapid succession. Thornely was judged lbw to one that kept low and Benham, who fell five short of three figures, played on while shaping to pull. With a loose drive by Sean Ervine quickly presenting Streak with his fifth wicket of the innings - his first five-wicket bag since April - Hampshire were in danger of slipping to their third defeat of the season. Two overs after tea, they were precariously placed on 249 for eight, a lead of only 83. Lancashire, the other county with a realistic chance of winning the title, were again frustrated by the rain on the third day of their match against relegation-threatened Middlesex at Old Trafford. After 105 overs were lost during the first half of the match, only two overs were possible before tea yesterday, during which time Middlesex added four runs. Only one over was possible before tea at Headingley in the rain-hit contest between Yorkshire and Kent In the Second Division, some collusion on the final day of the match between Leicestershire and promotion-seeking Worcestershire at Grace Road left the home team requiring 356 for victory. After slipping to 88 for three, Leicestershire were indebted to half-centuries from John Sadler and Darren Maddy, who had added an undefeated 126 for the fourth wicket when tea was taken, with the home team on 214 for three and well set to push for victory. On the penultimate day of the game at Derby, Michael Di Venuto struck 104 to help Derbyshire past Gloucestershire's first-innings total of 240 with six wickets in hand. In the verdant splendour of Arundel, England's women were seeking to take an unbeatable 2-0 lead in the third of the five one-day internationals against India. England won the first game at Lord's before the second match, at Shenley, was abandoned. After being asked to bat first, India were restricted to 185 for six from their 50 overs, with Isa Guha, the Berkshire seamer, returning figures of four for 29. Mithali Raj, a right-hander, top-scored for India with 73 and hit seven of only 12 fours in the India innings.In reply, England were 73 for three after 26 overs. 