 The run-out of Jos Buttler at Edgbaston when he was backing up prematurely in the deciding ODI of the series left a sour taste in the mouths of just about everyone looking on. But, adopting the modern mantra, we must be able to take the positives in all this. Well, the boxing promoter Eddie Hearn would be impressed. The crowds, so far, have not been flocking to our international venues. The forthcoming Test series against Sri Lanka needed a bit of spicing up and the two sides seem to have managed that nicely. Even Alastair Cook is snarling, contradicting himself with simultaneous actions after the game by shaking the hand of his opposite number, Angelo Mathews, while saying something “unrepeatable” to him. Get your ringside tickets for Lord’s and Headingley. There are still plenty for sale, especially in Yorkshire. Moreover, the run-out was another compliment to Buttler. Did the Sri Lankans seek to run out James Tredwell or even Joe Root in this manner? Apart from enduring the power of Buttler’s hitting at Lord’s they were aware of his quicksilver running between the wickets in that partnership with Ravi Bopara. In this form of the game, Buttler is currently England’s most dangerous batsman and here was evidence that the Sri Lankans recognise that. Running out the non-striker in this manner is not quite so rare as we think. In February 2012 Mathews was batting when Ravi Ashwin ran out Lahiru Thirimanne in an ODI between India and Sri Lanka at the Gabba. Neither batsman was greatly impressed but a major incident was averted when, after a long discussion with the umpires, Virender Sehwag, who was captaining India, withdrew the appeal. Asked afterwards why he had done so, he said: “It’s soft. But that’s the way we are.” The Sri Lankans, for all their smiles, can rarely be accused of being “soft”. In August 2012 in a Championship match at Taunton Murali Karthik, playing for Surrey, ran out Somerset’s Alex Barrow, who was backing up too quickly. There were angry scenes as supporters of both sides assembled below the players’ balcony at the close of play. The Surrey director of cricket, Chris Adams, who happened to be at Edgbaston on Tuesday, admitted then that the spirit of cricket had been “challenged”. This “spirit of cricket” has always been a nebulous, confusing concept and one that crops up constantly when an incident of this sort takes place. MCC encourages the notion. They even have an annual “Spirit of Cricket” lecture. By common consent Kumar Sangakkara gave one of the best three years ago. He was followed by Tony Greig in 2012. Greig was more in his element in the ensuing Q&A, when he told Stuart Broad, who was participating in the discussion, that he should always “walk”. It was quickly pointed out that Greig seldom walked in Test cricket, in particular, against the Australians. “Oh, you couldn’t walk against them; they were bloody cheats,” retorted Greig. Yes, this “spirit of cricket” is a tricky business. It is tied in with the notion of cricket “civilising people and creating good gentlemen” – as Robert Mugabe once put it. Buttler and Barrow have probably learnt their lesson now. It just so happens that both went to the same school, King’s College, Taunton, where, like many others, they benefited from the wisdom of Dennis Breakwell, the old Northamptonshire and Somerset cricketer. He is a very fine coach though he may now wish he had placed a little more emphasis on running between the wickets. At Edgbaston on Tuesday, Buttler was not cheating. He was dawdling out of his crease and he was dozy, having already been warned about backing up too early. The Sri Lankans were within their rights to run him out (though the old regulation of being allowed to leave the crease only when the ball has been released by the bowler might be easier for everyone to interpret). As for the “spirit of cricket”, it remains a beloved concept but we are no nearer understanding what it means or whether it has ever really existed. It did not stop WG Grace in the 19th century popping the bails back on after being bowled and continuing his innings or Sachithra Senanayake on Tuesday night removing the bails and ending Buttler’s. 