 There will not be many worse batting displays this season than Sussex's second innings capitulation here, with the honourable exception of their captain Chris Adams, but that should not detract from an outstanding Lancashire team performance spearheaded yesterday afternoon by Sajid Mahmood. His return to county cricket had not been going well, with a single expensive wicket in Sussex's first innings and a first-ball duck yesterday morning, the only failure in an otherwise determined effort by Lancashire's lower order which secured a 99-run lead. But Sajid finally showed the qualities that have attracted Duncan Fletcher and the rest of England's bowling brains trust with an explosive spell in which he fired out Chris Nash, Murray Goodwin and Richard Montgomerie in the space of three overs, reducing Sussex from 40 for one to 49 for four. Nash was well caught down the leg side by Luke Sutton fending off a short ball, then Goodwin hobbled off after being pinned lbw by a rapid yorker. Sajid's next ball was a nasty lifter that struck Adams a painful blow on the glove, and although the Sussex captain showed his grit - and showed up his team-mates - by composing himself to make a bristling 68, later in the same over the opener Montgomerie chipped a return catch. Sajid then returned for the last two wickets, including Adams caught at deep backward point, to complete county-best figures of five for 52. However between his two bursts several Sussex batsmen were guilty of witless or spineless dismissals which mocked and jeopardised their position at the top of the table, leaving Lancashire needing only 68 - which they comfortably reached in 19 overs - to close to within 14 points with a game in hand. Luke Wright and Mushtaq Ahmed both flashed loosely at Glen Chapple, who ended with match figures of seven for 82, and Robin Martin-Jenkins lofted Gary Keedy to long-off in the third over after tea. In fairness the tall all-rounder was suffering from a back spasm that had prevented him from bowling, but there was no such excuse for Matt Prior offering a catch to Brad Hodge at mid-on the ball after flirting with Mal Loye at mid-off. Jason Lewry deserved much better after passing 500 first-class wickets in taking five for 75 in the first innings, with Mushtaq also claiming yet another five-wicket bag. Lancashire slipped to 180 for six but Chapple responded with an exhilarating 47 including three sixes, a tally matched by Dominic Cork in his 52-ball half-century, while Sutton and Keedy also played valuable, if less spectacular, roles. 