 DESPERATE TIMES, DESPERATE MEASURES England's summer feels one lost toss away from implosion. If and when that moment arrives, however, the Spin's sympathy will only extend so far. Yes, the injury epidemic has been cruel (although even that, you suspect, might have been better managed). Yet there is a strange in-limbo-like feel to the side at the moment that is bringing out the worst. And it makes this column want to scream. In the bad old days, England used to play their best cricket just when it seemed like things could not get any worse: Bridgetown 1993-94, Adelaide 1994-95, Old Trafford 1998. But even after nine meaningful international matches without a win, they remain far enough away from rock bottom to convince themselves that they need only a couple of victories to return to somewhere near the top. It's a dangerous, illusory state of affairs, and - because, deep down, England know they are in trouble - it is encouraging the kind of conservatism that is English cricket's default setting in times of need. The delayed declaration at Lord's was bad enough. But now there is talk of replacing Monty Panesar, England's most promising spin bowler since Derek Underwood, with Jamie Dalrymple, a gutsy batsman who averages 45 with his off-breaks in first-class cricket. Granted, this would shorten a tail that might look long if Sajid Mahmood is given the chance to show off his reverse-swing skills on his home ground at Old Trafford this week in place of the injured Liam Plunkett. But it would send out all the wrong signals to Pakistan and Australia. Put simply, the case for Dalrymple is not compelling enough to risk the future of Panesar, who took five wickets in his last Test but one, and would probably have done better at Lord's with more time and luck. But now that Andrew Strauss is captain, Duncan Fletcher's influence is being felt at every turn. And if Panesar is an Andrew Flintoff man, then Dalrymple has Fletcher written all over him. Scyld Berry argued convincingly on Sunday that Panesar is not being given the chance to build on his Edgbaston cameo (why oh why was Matthew Hoggard sent out at No9 at Lord's when England needed quick runs?). But with Flintoff out of the way until the Ashes at the earliest, Fletcher has the licence to assert control, and he has made it clear enough that he regards Panesar as a batting and fielding liability. If England do drop him for Dalrymple, then Pakistan will be doing their best to stifle their glee. Remember, they will have Younis Khan at their disposal this time. They were at their most vulnerable at Lord's, but England were not in the mood to exploit that. As Mushtaq Ahmed told us last week: "Mentally, that draw will feel like a win for us." England must now hope to avoid a scenario which is only the spin of a coin away from materialising: lose toss, concede 550, face last-day battle against Danish Kaneria. You read it here first. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o QUOTE OF THE WEEK "The only reason I'm not selected was the fact I did Strictly Come Dancing" - Moments before grabbing a startled journalist and twirling him above his head, the 35-year-old Darren Gough pinpoints the only possible reason for his continued absence from England's one-day side o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o EXTRAS Any journalist who has done - sorry, spent - time sitting through Duncan Fletcher press conferences will know there are only a limited number of ways you can tell the media to sod off without, well, properly saying it. "Aww, I wouldn't know about that" is one favourite. "This isn't the forum to discuss the matter" is another. "You'd have to ask Michael/Fred/Andrew" is a third. Any of these can be followed with the ultimate put-down: "Look, I'm just repeating myself...", which is a great way of stalling for time as the assembled hacks scratch their heads and wonder when he actually said it the first time. Recently, though, the Spin came across two instances where the verbal forward defensive, bat and pad locked grimly together, could not have been more telling. The first came at a county championship match where a Potential England Test Cricketer - whose name is definitively not Monty Panesar - was getting carted all over the place. Later, one of the batsmen who had faced him was asked by a member of the press how the PETC had bowled. There was a pause. "No comment," came the reply, which was all we needed to know. Then there was the fallout over the handling of Andrew Flintoff's ankle injury. Every time the ECB release their latest injury bulletin they are - understandably - at pains to point out that the correct procedure has been followed in a player's rehabilitation. But who wants to stick their neck out? Not, it seems, David Graveney. "We've got a much more extensive medical team in place now than when I became chairman of selectors in 1997," he said. "But I think these questions are best addressed to the medical officer." o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o THE WEEK IN CRICKET ● Andrew Flintoff will be out for 12 weeks after it is decided his left ankle needs an operation after all. Flintoff sent down only four overs in Kent's second innings during Lancashire's championship trip to Canterbury before complaining of discomfort, and now faces a race to be match fit in time for the first Ashes Test at Brisbane, starting on November 23. England hope Flintoff's pre-Ashes recovery will be aided by a spell in Australian club cricket ● Justin Langer continues his build-up to the Ashes by hitting 342 for Somerset against Surrey at Guildford. It is the highest score by a Somerset batsman, beating Viv Richards's 322 against Warwickshire at Taunton in 1985, and falls only three runs short of the highest score by an Australian in England: Charlie Macartney hit 345 against Nottinghamshire in 1921. Only six players have scored more in a championship innings ● Younis Khan returns to action following the knee injury that kept him out of the first Test by hitting 58 and leading Pakistan to a seven-wicket win over Northamptonshire ● Adil Rashid, an 18-year-old leg-spinner, takes 6 for 67 on his Yorkshire debut to help trounce Warwickshire at Scarborough. Rashid, born in Heaton, is the first home-grown Asian cricketer to appear for Yorkshire in the championship ● Michael Vaughan says he is aiming for a January return following a fourth operation on his right knee ● England add Jamie Dalrymple to their squad for Thursday's second Test against Pakistan at Old Trafford. Liam Plunkett is ruled out until the fourth Test at The Oval because of a side strain ● The Twenty20 Cup finals day will be contested by Essex, Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and Surrey o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o CONTACT THE SPIN Email lawrence.booth@ and if you want his employers to take any notice of what you're saying to him (whether we should sack him or give him a pay rise, for example), you could do worse than cc. sports.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk while you're at it. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o OUT! If you wish to unsubscribe from The Spin, send an empty email to The_Spin-request@guardianunlimited.co.uk with "unsubscribe" in the subject line and nothing in the body of the mail. You can also subscribe and unsubscribe at http://sport./thespin Guardian Unlimited (c) Guardian Newspapers Limited 2006 Registered in England and Wales No. 908396. Registered office: 164 Deansgate, Manchester M60 2RR ------------------------------------------------------------------ Visit Guardian Unlimited - the UK's most popular newspaper website http:// http://observer.co.uk ------------------------------------------------------------------ 