 Steely resolve to win a first ever County Championship title this summer was evident as Somerset avoided the follow-on with one wicket in hand at the start of play and turned a compelling match their way by the middle of a sweltering afternoon. Yorkshire appeared firmly in charge when Somerset resumed at 220 for nine in reply to 372. But five less than testing deliveries from leg-spinner Adil Rashid, completing an over from the previous evening, failed to trouble the last man, Charl Willoughby, and soon the First Division leaders had secured the three runs needed to avoid being asked to bat again. Craig Kiewetter, unbeaten on 53 overnight, then attacked with gusto and claimed an unlikely second batting point with successive fours off Tim Bresnan's opening over with the second new ball. The 20-year-old South African wicketkeeper had played with enormous maturity while building a crucial innings for his team and was unbeaten on 67 when Willoughby was taken at slip for 18 to end the innings on 258, a deficit of 114. The last pair had added 38 in 4.3 overs.  Willoughby quickly maintained the momentum by having the first-innings centurion, Jacques Rudolph, well caught at first slip by Justin Langer, low to his right, without scoring. Andrew Caddick claimed his first Championship wicket of the season after a shoulder injury by having Adam Lyth caught behind with still no runs on the board. Yorkshire's grip on the game had been significantly loosened within the first half-hour.  Somerset's bowlers looked to have learned from the tight line employed by their opponents the previous day. Anthony McGrath and Andrew Gale had to work hard in a third-wicket partnership, which took the score to 76 for two at lunch, Gale reaching his second half-century of the match off 76 balls.  The second over after the interval split them as Alfonso Thomas slipped an inswinger between McGrath's bat and pad to bowl Yorkshire's acting skipper for 21. Gale, who had impressed with his powerful back-foot shots, fell lbw for 58 in Thomas's next over.  Somerset were clearly in the ascendancy when Ian Blackwell extracted enough turn from the Old Pavilion End to find the edge of Bresnan's bat with the score on 90.  Gerard Brophy's error of judgment in leaving another Thomas inswinger saw his middle stump knocked back and a lead of 218, with only four wickets left, looked perilous on what throughout has been a typically benign Taunton pitch. Richard Pyrah was dropped on 13 by Kieswetter, standing up to the left-arm seam of Willoughby, but the wicketkeeper soon atoned with a good catch off the same bowler to send back Rashid for 30 and leave Yorkshire 146 for seven at tea.  Pyrah held up Somerset with a well-constructed fifty, off 105 balls, before being yorked by Thomas, whose five for 46 in a total of 208 was his best return in the county game.  Chasing 323 to win, the home side closed on 12 without loss and will fancy their chances today. 