 In a splendidly sunlit and excitingly contested match West Indies won the first Prudential International Cricket Cup through an innings of near genius from Clive Lloyd; Australia lost it through three prodigal run-outs. After their defeat by West Indies a week earlier, and as a side cruelly out of match practice, Australia's was a characteristically combative attempt to win. The eventual difference was only 17 runs, and at several points it was possible to objectively anticipate an Australian win. A crowd of 27,000 paid a record £66,000 to watch the longest day's play - over nine-and-half hours. The entertainment was prodigious, only the fielding sometimes wavered, but it was always eager. The pitch was slow; only Thomson and Roberts roused lift from it; but its bounce was unreliable; the occasional ball squatted disconcertingly. This factor imposed some degree of doubt on every batsman in the match except Lloyd, who thus deserved to win it. Ian Chappell, the opposing captain, came nearest to his mastery and, for that reason, mounted the major challenge to Lloyd's purpose. Chappell's decision to send in West Indies probably was prompted by his wish to know how many runs his side would need to make to win. Certainly there was no morning greenness in the wicket. The game was resolved without any bias of conditions in favour of either side, and a crowd preponderantly - in volume - West Indian delighted in every moment of it. Although Chappell posted two slips, a gully, and nearly-short leg for Lillee and Gilmour, Fredericks and Greenidge began the West Indies innings aggressively. They had scored 12 when Fredericks hooked the last ball of the third over - bowled by Lillee - into a jubilant crowd at long leg. By dismal ill-luck - and possibly an improvident lack of spikes in his boots - he slipped and dislodged a bail, which lost him simultaneously both his six and his wicket. Kallicharran gave two examples of his semi-finals splendour before he misjudged a cut and was taken at the wicket. When Greenidge, who had been strangely quiet, touched a barely bouncing inswinger and Marsh dived to scoop up the shred of a catch, West Indies were 50 for 3, and Lloyd lounged in to join an unusually subdued Kanhai. Lloyd is often a hesitant starter. Now, however, he middled his first ball with monumental certainty and, without further ado, launched himself upon an innings of majestic power. He moved with lithe, almost languid, smoothly muscular speed of a tiger; hit with the unstrained leverage of inborn timing. Only Thomson, who bowled with good sense, clear purpose and high, controlled, pace imposed any curb on him. Kanhai intuitively resigned himself to securing an end while Lloyd batted as even he has rarely done. He hit where and how he wished. Once Walker, a fast medium bowler of some quality and resource, dropped fractionally short to him. Lloyd might have gone back and hooked. Instead he moved on to the front foot and with a lazy swing, hit into the exultant crowd at square leg. He drove, hooked, glanced or pulled with such power that he scattered Chappell's close field until he could push a single as casually as scratching his head. The fourth wicket partnership had made 149 runs from 26 overs and Lloyd had scored his century off 82 balls when, after consultation between the umpires, he was given out, caught down the leg side by the wicket keeper. Gilmour, like Thomson, overcame his early delivery-stride troubles and was Australia's most successful bowler. Then, in rapid sequence, Kanhai, missing an off drive, and Richards, beaten by a slower ball, were bowled by Gilmour, and three wickets had gone down for ten runs in three overs. At this crucial phase West Indies maintained their purpose. Boyce, Julien and Murray re-established the innings and swept it through to a massive 291 for 8 by the end of their 60 overs. Those who watched from distant sitting positions could argue that Australia missed six possible catches. They were at best half-chances, some of which they might have taken at high season, but hardly after five days' play in what for them was a new season. If 292 seemed a remote objective - and would have been a competition record - Australia aimed at it with no hint of resignation. McCosker, groping, was soon caught at second slip, and then Ian Chappell and Turner created the foundation of a possible Australian win. Lloyd came on for his possibly crucial 'fifth bowler' stint. Chappell has a typically Australian belligerent streak and now he batted at his highly competent best. He and Turner had come to 81 in the 21st over when, as they went for a quick single from Chappell's stroke, Richards threw down the stumps from mid-wicket. The Chappell brothers had made 34 assured runs from seven overs when Ian pushed into the covers; they hesitated about the run as brothers should never do and again Richards threw down the stumps. Walters batted with a certainty he has rarely shown in this country; another 47 runs came from ten overs, and Australia were still in the hunt Ian Chappell played Lloyd to mid-wicket and, as he made for the bowler's end, Richards threw in to Lloyd who completed the run-out. So, in the 38th over, Australia were 162 for 4 and three of those four lost men had been run out. There was no recovery. Two more were run out later, but by then the issue was decided. Walters played capably and aimed still for the arithmetically possible win until, looking for runs across the line, he was bowled by Lloyd. Marsh, Edwards and Walker ploughed on as their objective receded. Boyce, returning, took their three useful wickets. Although Thomson and Lillee in an unaccustomed partnership put on 41 for the last wicket, Australia were already in the classic over-limit dilemma. The field held back and overs ran out as the innings was steadily strangled. At a quarter-to-nine in the 59th over, after several false starts, the crowd swarmed over, leaving the Australians to curse those three run outs. 