 Australia batsman Adam Voges is being put through his paces at Bellerive Oval, attempting to prove his fitness for the second Test. Voges tested out his hamstring on Friday morning, doing some sprint work under the watchful eye of team medical staff and chairman of selectors Rod Marsh. The 37-year-old then practiced his running between the wickets while batting in the nets. Voges tweaked his hamstring in the field during the first Test at the WACA, where Australia suffered a 177-run loss to South Africa. The three-Test series continues in Hobart on Saturday. Australia have already been forced to make two changes to their XI, with Joe Burns and Joe Mennie called up in place of Shaun Marsh (broken finger) and Peter Siddle (back). Callum Ferguson has also been called into the squad and is considered a good chance to debut, even if Voges if passed fit. Allrounder Mitch Marsh is under pressure to maintain his spot in the side, while Nathan Lyon could be dumped depending on how much the match is shortened by predicted showers. But the pursuit of reverse swing by Australia’s bowlers could be all in vain according to Bellerive Oval’s curator. South Africa used reverse swing to great effect at the WACA during their first Test victory and key paceman Josh Hazlewood has since spoken of the need for the home side to make greater use of the tactic. But chief curator Marcus Pamplin has dampened hopes ahead of Saturday’s match start. “I don’t reckon there will be any reverse swing, it will just be conventional swing and if there’s a little bit of cloud around it could swing a little bit,” he told reporters on Friday. With rain forecast for the first three days of play, Pamplin said he’s prepared a firm track which will withstand long periods under the covers. “There will be a little bit of movement after (the removal of) the covers, for sure. “It’s just going to naturally brighten up the grass. It hasn’t had a lot of rolling in between that time, it might be a bit of an advantage to the bowling team.” In Perth, man of the match Kagiso Rabada troubled Australia greatly using reverse swing. In contrast, Hobart will be a stage more suited to seamers. “If they’re seam, there should be a bit of spin early on, but I don’t think it’s going to break up enough to allow the spinners to get any purchase on this pitch,” Pamplin said. 