 Ben Stokes, a world-class player? It was hard to argue against that here on a steamy Saturday night. Stokes announced himself in his second Test almost three years ago with a century on cricket’s quickest pitch in Perth. A year ago he thrashed the Kiwis on the most famous one at Lord’s. Nine months ago he triumphed in Africa, cracking 258 in 198 balls in Cape Town and here he displayed the maturity to deliver a copybook Asian innings. He arrived at the crease with England, albeit bolstered by an unexpected 45-run first-innings lead, creaking on 46 for four. The surface was drier still and cratered; Shakib Al Hasan and his new assistant Mehedi Hasan were turning the ball devilishly and England appeared to be surrendering the initiative. The new, mature Stokes scorned the Boys’ Own approach. He did not breathe fire and launch an immediate and ferocious counterattack. Instead he dug in, watching the ball all the way on to his bat and he waited, deftly picking up singles to a field deep set because of his reputation. An unlikely parallel occurred. Half close your eyes and it might have been Graham Thorpe out there cunningly manoeuvring the ball into the gaps. As it happens, Thorpe has recently shared some of his expertise of playing spin bowling in the subcontinent with Stokes, who must have listened. Here he was happy to play the patient game. After 39 balls Stokes had yet to hit a boundary. Then he allowed himself the luxury of a reverse sweep against Mehedi. But this was a rare departure from pragmatic orthodoxy. Jonny Bairstow offered steady, sound assistance only to fall short – by three runs – of his fifth consecutive Test half-century. The partnership blossomed and accelerated in the final session; it was worth 127 and on a tricky pitch it should now dictate the outcome of the match. By the close England had a lead of 273 with two wickets remaining. That should be enough. It was, again, the sixth-wicket partnership, that saved the day. In 2016, England have scored 1,493 runs at an average of 82 for this wicket. It is easily England’s most productive combination. The next on the list – and this may be even more alarming for those residing in the upper order – is the partnership for the seventh wicket. In the end Bairstow was bowled off the inside edge to become Kamrul Islam Rabbi’s first Test wicket. Soon after Stokes was lbw for 85 sweeping at the persevering Shakib. The all-rounders had dug the team out of another substantial hole. None of the specialist batsmen could reach 20 against the spinners. Alastair Cook edged to slip; Joe Root swept too early in his innings and was palpably lbw despite his decision to review and Ben Duckett popped a catch to short-leg. England were 28 for three at lunch and Bangladesh were back in the game. After the break Moeen Ali, on six, appeared to be caught at short-leg but he was sufficiently alert to the fact that the ball had glanced the grille of Mominul Haque’s helmet, which meant that the catch was not legitimate. Yet again Gary Ballance was snapped up by leg slip when sweeping and soon after Moeen succumbed playing the same shot. By now England were especially relieved that they had enjoyed such a productive morning in the field, when Bangladesh collapsed, losing their last five wickets for 27 runs. Shakib, usually the cagiest of cricketers, was the most culpable of their batsmen in the first hour. Having blocked his first delivery from Moeen he then charged down the pitch to his second; he swung his bat vigorously and connected only with (relatively) fresh air. Bairstow deftly removed the bails and one can only assume that Shakib returned to a funereally silent dressing room. What is there to say when a senior man plays a shot like that? The rational explanation – if there is one – goes like this and it might help to explain Root’s aberration as well: even the best players when batting on a challenging turning pitch experience doubts over whether they can defend the ball securely right at the start of their innings. Hence there are times when even they cannot resist the temptation to assert themselves with a prematurely aggressive shot. Once they have survived 10 or 15 minutes the confidence that they can defend the ball comfortably returns and they bat more discreetly. Despite a few crisp sweeps from Sabbir Rahman, which prompted Cook to replace Moeen with Adil Rashid, Bangladesh were unable to recover from the shock and the manner of Shakib’s dismissal. Shafiul Islam holed out to mid-on in Rashid’s first over, whereupon the irrepressible Stokes polished off the tail to finish with the startling figures of four for 26 from 14 overs. Bowling with an old ball Stokes conjured a smidgeon of reverse swing. Mehedi, stuck on the crease, was lbw after a review. Inevitably, the dismissal of Sabbir also required the intervention of third umpire, Sundaram Ravi, who has had no more respite than a Chittagong traffic officer. After countless replays he decided that an edge to first slip had just carried into the hands of Cook. In the past the umpires would have been more conservative but they have become more aware of how TV pictures can distort. There was no doubt about the final dismissal; Kamran’s off-stump went missing after he had shouldered arms. So Stokes had reasserted his indispensability in both departments. There is not enough cotton wool with which to wrap him in England’s substantial tour baggage. There is a notional rotation system for the pace bowlers on this tour but the quality of Stokes’s batting is of such magnitude that he can never be part of that. Nor would he want to be. 