 RIGHT DECISION, WRONG TIME After last week's assertion that England's summer was "one lost toss away from implosion", the Spin is reluctant to stare too intently into the crystal ball that sits mockingly on its mahogany desk. But it can't help wondering whether the decision to drop Geraint Jones just two Tests before an Ashes tour is as bad a piece of timing as Jones's attemped pull shot at Old Trafford on Friday. It should be pointed out that Jones's broken finger would have ruled him out of the third Test at Headingley in any case. But the England management have gone out of their way to stress that Jones would have been dropped regardless, which has the distinctly uncomfortable whiff of kicking a man when he's down. It's typical of Jones's unorthodox career that England have finally lost patience with him just as he was beginning to keep wicket with genuine aplomb. Even with a fractured ring finger on his right hand he looked a better gloveman during Pakistan's second innings than Kamran Akmal has done throughout the series. Yet it is his lack of runs - his failure to reach 20 in any of his last 10 innings was the sort of form that originally cost Read his place - that has proved his downfall. Defending Jones is not a popular pastime. The Spin spoke to one county keeper last week who sounded thoroughly hacked off that England were yet to drop him. And anything even approaching a gaffe with the gloves is greeted with knowing tuts and rolled eyes in the press box. There is some merit in telling Jones to go back to Kent and, once his finger has healed, reaccustom himself to the habit of building an innings. But his confidence was already low enough as it is. Where will it be if and when he returns to face Australia? This column has never been totally convinced by Jones, but it has stopped short of calling for his removal because the alternatives were unconvincing too. Nothing that has happened this season to change this view, not even Read's three first-class centuries, which, as Scyld Berry pointed out, were all made in less-than-exacting circumstances. Yes, Jones's batting has fallen away, but his keeping is now excellent. What has happened to all those voices who have clamoured to point out that you pick your keeper for his keeping first and his batting second? Read now has the chance to make the No7 spot his own, but do England really want to take on Australia in Brisbane with a player who averages 15 in Tests? Why go all this way with Jones, why toughen him up during the 2005 Ashes, why allow him to develop his glovework, only then to drop him and go to lengths to explain that the reason is his poor batting form rather than a broken finger? The Spin had always assumed that Duncan Fletcher would insist on Jones keeping wicket this winter - which might yet happen - before bowing to pressure and letting him go after the World Cup. After all the investment in him, that seemed like the sensible course of action. But now more seeds of doubt have been sown in the mind of a player who says he could have "cried myself to sleep" when all the stick was flying his way last summer. Read's first Test for over two years will come under enormous scrutiny. England need him to stand up to it. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o QUOTE OF THE WEEK "He is a baccha [a kid]. It is not right to talk about bacchas" - Jagmohan Dalmiya is no way determined to patronise Sourav Ganguly, who has accused Dalmiya of ruining his career. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o EXTRAS The Spin was rudely awakened yesterday morning by a call from The Tonk, its no-nonsense Australian cousin. In between the asteriskable adjectives and the grunts of derision at England's triumphant three days in Manchester, the Spin discerned the following train of thought: Ian Bell and - especially - Paul Collingwood are no good, therefore it will suit Australia if they keep scoring runs and both play at Brisbane; and Monty Panesar is not all he's cracked up to be. Since the maid was waiting patiently outside the door with the scrambled eggs and smoked salmon at the time, the Spin resisted the chance to respond with a few home truths about the whereabouts of the urn. But it also took a quiet satisfaction from the Tonk's dismissiveness. To start with Monty. His progress can be measured by the fact that the former left-arm spinners he is constantly compared with keep getting better and better. At first he was England's best slow left-armer since Phil Tufnell. Then it was Phil Edmonds. Now it is Derek Underwood. Soon it could well be Hedley Verity, the man who dismissed Don Bradman eight times in Tests, more than any other bowler. Duncan Fletcher might well have a bizarre blindspot about Panesar's value to the side, but when the Spin collared Bob Woolmer in Manchester on Sunday morning, it was clear the Pakistanis do not share Fletcher's concerns. Panesar can be a match-winner in Australia. Who cares if he won't score you 25 every innings? As for Bell and Collingwood, the Spin only hopes the Australians continue to underestimate both. The weakness outside off-stump that culminated in Bell's pair at The Oval last summer appears to have been eradicated - although the Pakistanis possess no one of Glenn McGrath's accuracy - and he looked the classiest batsman on either side at Old Trafford. There are fears that he might not handle the short ball down under, but he is nothing if not adaptable. The Spin backs both men to score runs this winter, and it backs Monty to do the business at Sydney. But moments from the end of its stirring soliloquy, it heard a "click" followed by a "brr". The Tonk clearly had better things to do. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o THE WEEK IN CRICKET ● Goldsborough Second XI are bowled out for 5 in their Nidderdale and District Amateur Cricket League match with Dishforth. All five runs come from extras: four byes and a leg-bye. "We could have got a run but the batsman had just been hit on the foot the ball before and he turned down the chance," said the Goldsborough captain, Peter Horseman. ● Cricket Australia warns England fans who have bought Ashes tickets from touts that they will be turned away at the gate this winter. ● Andrew Flintoff undergoes successful surgery on his left ankle and now faces a 12-week rehabilitation programme as he tries to get fit in time for the Ashes. ● Mahela Jayawardene hits 374 - the fourth-highest score in Test history - and Kumar Sangakkara 287 as the pair share a world-record partnership for any wicket in first-class cricket of 624 in the first Test against South Africa at the SSC in Colombo. Sri Lanka declare on 756 for 5 before completing an innings-and-153-run win, with Muttiah Muralitharan taking 10 for 172. ● England take a 1-0 lead in their four-Test series with Pakistan thanks to a thumping innings win in the second Test at Old Trafford. Steve Harmison takes 11 for 76, Monty Panesar 8 for 93 and there are hundreds for Alastair Cook and Ian Bell. ● Zimbabwe sack their captain Terry Duffin and replace him with Prosper Utseya. ● Northamptonshire part company with their coach Kepler Wessels "by mutual consent". But rumours suggest he had lost the confidence of the dressing-room, and it seems likely his son Riki, the county's wicketkeeper, will follow him out of Wantage Road. ● Michael Vaughan has finally admitted he might not take the field again because of his chronic knee injury. "I have to be realistic," he told the Mail on Sunday. "I've read I might never play cricket again, and that might well turn out to be the case. ● Sussex slip up in the race for the county championship when they lose to Warwickshire by 13 runs at Edgbaston. Set 270 to win, they were going well at 152 for 1 before Paul Harris took 5 for 73 to condemn them to only their second defeat of the season. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o CONTACT THE SPIN Email lawrence.booth@ and if you want his employers to take any notice of what you're saying to him (whether we should sack him or give him a pay rise, for example), you could do worse than cc. sports.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk while you're at it. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o OUT! If you wish to unsubscribe from The Spin, send an empty email to The_Spin-request@guardianunlimited.co.uk with "unsubscribe" in the subject line and nothing in the body of the mail. You can also subscribe and unsubscribe at http://sport./thespin Guardian Unlimited (c) Guardian Newspapers Limited 2006 Registered in England and Wales No. 908396. Registered office: 164 Deansgate, Manchester M60 2RR ------------------------------------------------------------------ Visit Guardian Unlimited - the UK's most popular newspaper website http:// http://observer.co.uk ------------------------------------------------------------------ 