 In sublime Devonian conditions – a cloudless sky and a barrel of Otter Ale in the pavilion – the Old Blundellian Cricket Club, made up of old boys from Blundell's school, was victorious on Tuesday. Led self-effacingly by your correspondent (batted No10, bowled three overs – don't ask), the opposition were defeated by 86 runs. I appreciate you may not yet be captivated – but remember, this is an Olympic year. The opponents were France and the match was inspired by the 1900 Paris Olympics, when cricket, haphazardly, was included in the schedule for the first and only time in Olympic history. There was just one fixture in 1900 – after the late withdrawal of Belgium and Holland – and it was between England and France. It took place in the Municipal Vélodrome de Vincennes. In the official report of the 1900 Olympics we learn: "The English team was composed of 12 men of Devon County, long accustomed to playing together. They were superior in team work and training." The Devon County Wanderers "gagne par 157 points" after a two-innings match completed in a day. Obviously this was a triumph only partially diluted by the return journey to the team's headquarters, the Hotel des Trois Princes, which was "eventful" since the coach driver crashed and caused minor injuries to some of the players. In fact, Devon cannot take all of the credit. There was some help from Somerset as well. The "England" team included four Old Blundellians and five cricketers from Castle Cary CC (which is in Somerset) and they happened to be on tour in France in 1900, calling themselves the Devon and Somerset Wanderers. Forget all those failures to win ICC trophies, somewhere out there are a dozen Olympic gold medals, eventually handed to the dozen members of a successful England team (they played 12-a-side and had to wait 12 years to receive those medals). This week there was just an exchange of gifts when the French were on tour to celebrate cricket's Olympic heritage. The Old Blundellians kept the cup – there is one – and, rather impishly, the French captain, Mark Moodley, was given a case of sparkling wine (they cannot call it champagne), made in Devon. After the match in Tiverton, the French team was moving on to Castle Cary to play two more games this week to commemorate a quirky piece of Olympic history, to have a good time and to add sparkle to Castle Cary CC's 125th anniversary celebrations. Moodley is also the pioneering managing director of French cricket. He has been resident in France for 24 years – though once played for Dorset under-19s. Most of his side were French residents, though very few of their cricketers were born in the country. Out on the field they were bilingual. Much of the encouragement to the bowlers was in French, though I am fairly confident (no more than that) that the Old Blundellian batsmen, so meticulously educated, could translate. It was easier to unravel than Urdu. Afterwards Moodley spoke with unbridled enthusiasm about the game in France. There are 5,000 participants and his optimism has been heightened by the fact that the authorities are allowing cricket into the education curriculum. Inevitably the French Cricket Federation is desperate for funding for development officers. Moodley assured me wistfully that there must be sponsors out there somewhere. Already there is great enthusiasm among English club cricketers – and their wives – to embrace France as a touring venue, though a few more turf pitches would help. Back in Devon there was no despondency after their defeat. There may not be many wrist-spinners in France – apart from Richie Benaud, who appears prominently on their website, and a young Old Blundellian wrist-spinner, Jack Menheneott, who, under very cunning direction, contrived eight for 29 – or "8 guichets pour 29 courses". According to that website – francecricket.com – there was compensation in defeat for one of the French cricketers, Christopher Bartlett, "qui ajoute un troisième 'Test player' à la liste de ses victims au lancer — le guichet de Vic Marks s'ajoute à ceux de Hashim Amla et John Edrich" (I assume my readership needs no translation). At least I'm in good company. Finally a scoop (this is where I always station my scoops): on Tuesday, the French having been resisted, I announced my retirement from international cricket. 