 Confidence counts for so much even for uncomplicated types like fast bowlers. Yesterday James Anderson achieved his highest score in Test cricket, having been elevated to the dizzy heights of number nine. Three hours later the engraver was at work in the Trent Bridge pavilion since he had achieved his best ever Test figures.  In the morning he shared a partnership of 76 with Stuart Broad, batting in all for almost two hours. By doing so he surprised a few people, and, no doubt, felt good about himself. Out he came in the afternoon in his more familiar role and everything clicked. Within 14 overs he had taken all six of the Kiwi wickets to fall at a personal cost of 42 runs. As a consequence England, after their post-lunch aberrations on Thursday, have absolute control of the game. I doubt whether Michael Vaughan, laid back character that he is, will have a sleepless night wondering whether it would be preferable to enforce the follow-on. New Zealand need another 69 runs to prevent Vaughan from having to make that decision. It is often all or nothing with Anderson. If the cricketing gods are with him the ball swings as if on a string and yesterday, if we half closed our eyes, we could almost see an image of a Richard Hadlee cruising in at Trent Bridge and causing torment to groping batsmen.  Anderson contrived to make the ball swing, late and at pace. Technically the Kiwis had no answer. Unusually they may be temperamentally fragile as well. They have let so many good positions slip recently that they must sense the game is now up. They must be looking forward to a white ball. Anderson, the batsman, may have been overshadowed by Broad in the morning. Once again Broad looked assured and patient, like a proper batsman in fact. But once the self-effacing Lancastrian had the ball in his hand, he was the commanding presence. The dismissals of Aaron Redmond and Brendon McCullum had a dreamlike quality for an opening bowler. Full length deliveries aimed at middle, swerved to send the off stump cartwheeling on both occasions. Perhaps the Kiwis should have known to play straighter - Anderson gave warning of his ability to conjure late swing back in Wellington three months ago - but these were brilliant deliveries. New Zealand rallied through Jamie How and Ross Taylor but once Anderson switched ends and the team had switched balls (the theory is that the replacement balls, made in 2007, swing more than the new balls, which are of 2008 vintage) then the tourists were on the rack. Soon Anderson found the edges of the surviving right-handers and then he dispatched a couple of left-handers. Poor Daniel Flynn, perhaps rushed back prematurely after losing his teeth at Old Trafford, was palpably lbw. Then Anderson demonstrated his flexibility by coming around the wicket to Jacob Oram and finding another outside edge.  The advent of bad light forty minutes before the scheduled close only provided temporary respite for the Kiwis. On Saturday Anderson will be refreshed and in pursuit of the coveted all ten. 