 Hampshire's hopes of a first championship title in 33 years have been dealt a double blow. Shane Warne has announced that he may miss two of their remaining five First Division matches and doubts linger about the fitness of their fast bowler Chris Tremlett, who was due to be released from hospital yesterday. Warne has been called to an Ashes training camp in Australia this month which impinges on Hampshire's fixtures against Warwickshire and second-placed Sussex but the captain says he hopes to negotiate an early return to play in Hove on August 31. Cricket Australia insists all contracted players must attend the camp in Queensland but Warne is understood to be one of several asking to miss part of the programme. "Realistically I'm asking that I can be released early and get back for Sussex," he said. "Of the two it's preferable that I miss Warwickshire." The spinner was speaking on Saturday after Hampshire's draw with fourth-placed Kent ended in near farce with Nic Pothas taking the new ball and bowling in his wicketkeeping pads. Pothas last bowled in a first-class match when he toured England with South Africa A 10 years ago when, against a Somerset side containing Marcus Trescothick, his one over went for five. From that match Jacques Kallis and Lance Klusener went on to long Test careers; Pothas, who was born in Johannesburg but holds a Greek passport, made his debut for Hampshire in 2002 and in theory he qualifies for England next year. On Saturday Warne allowed him six overs (five without pads), the first two of which were maidens before Robert Key struck the 13th ball for four. The 32-year-old returned figures of 6-2-16-0, which was considerably more economical than the other "occasional" bowlers used - John Crawley, who replaced Pothas as wicketkeeper, and the opening batsmen Michael Carberry and James Adams. The only Hampshire player not to bowl was Tremlett, who had gone to hospital on Friday. There were suggestions that he had hurt either his side, his back or his spine but yesterday his father Tim, Hampshire's director of cricket, said that the hospital's diagnosis was still awaited and that his son had suffered breathing difficulties. He will miss this week's match against Middlesex. Long before Pothas bowled, the match, which saw Hampshire edge closer to the two leaders, was heading for a draw. Having resumed on 29 for nought, Kent's openers frustrated Hampshire, who had declared on 554 for seven, 269 ahead, in the hopes of bowling them out on the final day. "It was just a bit of fun. It was all over so it made sense to bowl those guys rather than risk the regular guys getting over-tired or hurt," said Warne, whose 29 overs brought only two chances while Key and David Fulton both made their first centuries of the championship season. Their 281 broke their own first-wicket record against Hampshire. "But it wasn't down to poor bowling," said Warne. "It was the best I've bowled all year. If we had got one or two wickets in the morning who knows what would have happened but as soon as the sun came out the wicket went flat." 