 11.06am: A very good morning from sunny Taunton, writes Richard Latham. Somerset must continue their bid for a first ever County Championship title against Hampshire without the services of skipper Marcus Trescothick, who is awaiting the result of a scan on an injured right ankle. Those results are due this morning with both player and club fearing the worst - that he will be out for the remainder of the season. With Nick Compton also sidelined by injury and both Craig Kieswetter and Jos Buttler in the England Twenty20 squad, there is an unfamiliar look to Somerset's team.  Teenagers Alex Barrow and Craig Meschede both play, while former Gloucestershire player Steve Snell will keep wicket as a substitute today, with Buttler returning tomorrow. Perhaps in sympathy, Hampshire have rested both skipper Dominic Cork and keeper Nic Pothas, Jimmy Adams returning after illness to lead the side and Michael Bates taking over behind the stumps. Hampshire have won the toss and will field. 11.45am: Division One leaders Lancashire have made an inauspicious start to their match against Worcestershire at New Road, writes Richard Gibson. After winning the toss, they lost Paul Horton and Karl Brown inside the opening five overs. Both fell leg before wicket: Horton to one that nipped back from veteran seamer Alan Richardson, and Brown having shouldered arms to Kemar Roach. Former Worcestershire opener Stephen Moore then edged Roach for four, the ball flying through the vacant fourth slip position at catchable height, and cover drove the next for another boundary to begin the Red Rose's recovery from 10 for two. Great weather, good crowd here. Always a good sign when people are parking up on the adjacent field at the start of play, and the locals will have been buoyed by both their team's recent form and impressive start. 12.16pm: Greetings from the frozen Midlands, writes Mike Selvey. Or the new Edgbaston pressbox as it is known. Those familiar with the machinations of new facilities such as this are aware that invariably they include aircon but fail to provide either instructions nor the means to turn the damn thing off. So I sit here in my woolly hat and jumpers while others suffer in shirtsleeves. You cannot buy experience. At least it has windows that open though, something which eluded the geniuses who constructed Lord's award winning media centre. Lord's now provides 'ambient noise' - a microphone situated on the middle balcony of the pavilion close to the visitors' dressing room, which gives the tinkle, tinkle, chink, chink chatter of a few members rather than the actual feel of the game- as well as aircon. At Edgbaston, now the loftiest perch in the land, we were able to hear all the crowd noise and reaction during the recent Test match, which believe me makes proper reporting so much easier. Today, there is a sparse smattering, and any noise comes from the players. This is an important match for both Warwickshire, who are second in the first division to Lancashire by three points only, and Yorkshire, who are looking favourite, along with Hampshire, to be playing second division cricket next year. They are not likely to get much change out of Warwickshire however. Ashley Giles decided during the Test that his pitches would help the seamers for the rest of the season and in overcast conditions, their decision to field first would appear to be a good one, for the ball swung considerably. So it has required diligence from the Yorkshire openers, and a little good fortune as the ball passed the bat repeatedly not to lose a wicket in the first fifty minutes, reaching 34-0. Team news for Warwickshire is that Boyd Rankin, Irish one day international and now England Lion, has been deemed superfluous to requirement so that Chris Wright, on loan from Essex, who took wickets in his first game for Warwickshire, retains his place, while Rikki Clarke returns after injury. Yorkshire have Adam Lyth back now that Jaques Rudolph has returned to South Africa for a training camp, and Jonny Bairstow comes back after Lions duty. An extra seamer, Moin Ashraf, has been added in place of David Wainwright. 12.24pm: James Tomlinson always enjoys a trip to Taunton, writes Richard Latham. The left-arm seamer's career best figures eight for 46 were achieved here in 2008 and he wasted little time scattering the stumps of Arul Suppiah today with Somerset's total on seven. Soon it was 12 for two as Chris Jones was leg before pushing forward to Chris Wood for a duck. Since then 19-year-old Alex Barrow has made the most of his opportunity to open the batting in place of Marcus Trescothick. Having opened his account with a sweet cover-driven four off Wood, the product of King's College Taunton has moved sweetly to 36 in a total of 65 for two. James Hildreth came in at four with a heavy responsibility in a depleted line-up. He is on 22 and Dimitri Mascarenhas has replaced Wood at the Old Pavilion End with the sun shining brightly and a decent crowd assembled. Trescothick is at the ground awaiting his scan results, which are due this afternoon. 1.17pm: Richard Latham reports from the lunch interval at Taunton. Somerset are in big trouble at 86 for seven and the news on Marcus Trescothick is that he will begin a rehabilitation programme on Friday. The skipper has not yet written off his season, but needs treatment for ankle tendon damage, including two small tears, so he is sure to miss next Sunday's Clydesdale Bank 40 semi-final against Durham at Taunton and the Championship game with Yorkshire at Headingley, which follows. In his absence, Somerset's other senior batmen have failed to step up to the plate, James Hildreth making 32, Peter Trego four and Arul Suppiah three. Substitute Steve Snell found himself walking out at 82 for five on what is likely to be his only day of Championship cricket this season and was bowled for four. Tomlinson has three wickets, Mascarenhas two and Wood one, while Imran Tahir struck in his first over, removing Meschede with a googly that saw the youngster caught at short leg by Adams. Some poor shots have brought Somerset's demise, rather than any demons in the pitch. 1.21pm: In contrast to the experiences of Mr Selvey, I can report fresh air and sunshine from across the West Midlands. (Oh, and sandwiches to order. Salmon baguette, seen as you asked), says Richard Gibson. There has also been rich reward for some good old-fashioned seam bowling as Division One leaders Lancashire have spluttered to 109 for eight at lunch. Three wickets in four balls from Gareth Andrew decimated the Red Rose's middle order and like those before him, his success was based on sticking to a full length. There was just enough nibble in the pitch to encourage the pace bowlers throughout and the visitors were already four wickets down when Andrew began the 20th over of the innings from the New Road end. First the recalled Mark Chilton - preferred to overseas signing Farveez Maharoof - was late on one to be trapped leg before, Gareth Cross suffered the same fate from a delivery that angled back into him and although captain Glen Chapple survived the hat-trick, when he lunged with bat and pad to spark a stifled appeal, he chopped down and into his stumps to leave his team 67 for seven.  West Indian Kemar Roach, whose pace proved a handful throughout, then returned to have Tom Smith fending to first slip off the back foot. Roach and veteran Alan Richardson had both earned lbw successes with the new ball: Karl Brown paying dearly for shouldering arms and Paul Horton undone by a ball that nipped back. The shoots of a recovery were evident when former Worcestershire batsman Stephen Moore was alongside Chilton but the 41-run stand for the third wicket was annulled when the former was bowled by one that kept low. Next ball, Stephen Croft was struck on the knee roll from a similar spot and was adjudged out by umpire Peter Willey. Only Sajid Mahmood's primal striking has lifted Lancashire into three figures - his square-driven six off Roach, immediately following a sumptuous on-drive, doing just that. 1.23pm: This has not been a bad morning for Yorkshire, writes Mike Selvey. Put in by Warwickshire they have done well to lose just the single wicket of Joe Root in the morning session and have gone in to lunch on 83 for one. For this, they have to thank Joe Sayers, who has batted steadfastly throughout the morning and has 47 from 100 deliveries, many of them flagged by in typical fashion. This has not been the best bowling from Warwickshire however, for although the pitch is on the slow side, the ball has moved around considerably, enough for them to have taken significant wickets. Sometimes though it is easy to strain too hard to make things happen when the secret is to be disciplined and let the ball do its thing without extra help. The break might do them good for there are wickets here for someone who wants them. 3.13pm: Yet to get off the mark on the ice cream count at New Road but 10 wickets have fallen, the final two quelling a spirited late rally from Lancashire's tail, writes Richard Gibson. In answer to the query BTL if the sun comes back out I might add to the delightful pecan and praline cone I scoffed in Kirkby Lonsdale on Bank Holiday Monday. Think it was produced by a company called Bryson's (other brands are available - I've always wanted to do that, sorry). On the field, although Mahmood succumbed to the third ball after lunch, bowled pushing down the wrong line at Roach, number 10 Kyle Hogg swung hard during a last-wicket stand of 48 to take Lancashire to 161. His innings, including a couple of sixes, was just two shy of a half-century when his cross-bat assault was terminated by the hands of Aneesh Kapil, positioned at deep mid-on, to give Richardson a second wicket. 3.44pm: No doubt heartened by events at New Road and Edgbaston, acting-captain Alfonso Thomas and Murali Kartik produced a fighting stand of 64 after lunch before Thomas fell to a slip catch off Sean Ervine for 27, writes Richard Latham at Taunton. Kartik, employed by Somerset as a pinch hitter in one-day cricket this season, hit sixes off Tomlinson and Mascarenhas in moving to a priceless half-century off 74 balls. His side were 189 for nine, just 11 away from an unlikely batting point, when the biggest rabbit in the country, last man Charl Willoughby, emerged from the hutch, boasting nearly as many first class wickets as runs. He edged his first ball from Tahir through the slips for four and somehow survived the remaining three balls in the over. Kartik then nudged the hosts nearer the bonus point and clinched it with a late cut four off Tahir. He swept the next ball for another boundary to reach 54 and pass his previous best score for Somerset before Willloughby was inevitably caught to end the innings. Still Somerset will settle for 204 all out, having been 86 for seven at lunch. Tea is now being taken. 4.23pm: Tea here and only four more runs added since the dismissal of Joe Sayers, who perhaps could hear the whistle of the kettle as he pushed forward to Chris Metters and edged to Tim Ambrose for 84. But his had been a worth effort in the sort of conditions that ought to have profited the Warwickshire seamers more than they did. Sayers and Adam Lyth added 134 for the second wicket, with Lyth – unbeaten on 61 at the interval – the more aggressive of the partners, having hit seven fours and a six pulled to the short midwicket boundary (half the length of the boundary on the other side, so far over on the square is the pitch located). No ice-creams here, nor any wanted such is the temperature in the press box. A hot drink would be nice, but although the wonderful press lounge area has a state of the art coffee machine and an urn of hot water with which to make tea, there is no milk. These are the hardships under which we labour. 4.40pm: The wickets continue to tumble at New Road, writes Richard Gibson, but although the scorecard suggests the bowlers have an unfair advantage, that is not quite the reality. Worcestershire, who took tea at 77 for five, have, like Lancashire before them suffered for some injudicious strokes - Vikram Solanki cut lazily to gully and Alexei Kervezee was bowled offering an expansive drive at just the sixth delivery he faced. Yes, one or two deliveries have misbehaved a tad but lack of application as much as anything has contributed to the low-scoring nature of the contest. Tom Smith, like his Worcestershire counterparts, has experienced success from probing away. A beauty that left Moeen Ali flew to first slip and a yorker crashed into the boot of Aneesh Kapil to earn a leg before decision on the stroke of the second interval.  Worcestershire captain Daryl Mitchell also edged into the slip cordon, trying to force a delivery from Kyle Hogg off the back foot. Although pitch liaison officer Jack Birkenshaw is present it would be no surprise at all if his judgement was that the domino-effect that began shortly after 11am this morning is as much to do with poor batting and good bowling as any exaggerated assistance from the surface. 