 Sussex's reputation as the spiritual home from home for gifted Pakistanis is usually based on the success of Mushtaq Ahmed and Rana Naved-ul-Hasan but, as Middlesex have discovered, you overlook Yasir Arafat at your peril. While Mushtaq incredulously finished with none for 139 on the kind of pitch that gives pancakes a bad name, Arafat allowed Sussex a glimmer of hope. This match might yet dribble towards a draw but on a day when Lancashire, their closest rivals at the top of the table, were fighting hard against Kent, Sussex needed all the encouragement they could get. Arafat, a 24-year-old all-rounder, has played six one-day internationals for Pakistan and in November took nine for 76 for a Patron's XI against England at Rawalpindi. And when Naved picked up a groin injury in June that cut short his Sussex stint and ruled him out of the Test series against England, Arafat stepped in and began doing the business with all the unfussiness of a lifelong overseas pro. Yesterday was no different. Resuming on 374 for five, Sussex carelessly lost four quick wickets before Arafat began to enjoy himself with only the No11 Jason Lewry for company. As Middlesex fuses became shorter by the over - especially when Arafat launched Chris Peploe for a straight six the ball after being dropped by Owais Shah at deep midwicket - the pair added a frenetic 88 in under an hour. It was the 10th time this season Middlesex have conceded more than 350 and possibly the most dispiriting. Arafat then trapped Nick Compton in the fourth over of the reply and returned late on to torment Shah again by having him caught at deep square-leg by a tumbling Murray Goodwin for 85. A bouncer that connected with Jamie Dalrymple's helmet suggested deceptive pace too. A livelier pitch would have added welcome spice but instead Middlesex took advantage of the heat and the pitch - energy-sappers both - to maintain their own hopes of manufacturing something out of this game. Ed Smith battered 14 fours in his 75; Shah and Ed Joyce added 122 for the third wicket; and the stand-in captain Scott Styris cracked a 40-ball half-century as the shadows lengthened. Batting, though, has not been their problem this season and Middlesex will need their bowlers to produce something unexpectedly special if they are to keep the relegation wolves from the door. 