Cricketer sparks national debate in Australia after ignoring Mel McLaughlin’s post-match questions, instead asking her out and saying: ‘Don’t blush, baby’ 
 It was, Chris Gayle said, “just a joke” that had been blown out of proportion. When the West Indian cricketer, currently playing for the Melbourne Renegades in Australia, was approached by a female sports reporter after his innings during a Twenty20 match on Monday, he ignored her questions about the match, choosing instead to make comments about her eyes, ask her out for a drink and say: “Don’t blush, baby.” But while Mel McLaughlin’s employer, the broadcaster Network Ten, may have initially found Gayle’s comments “smooth”, according to a now deleted tweet, the reporter did not. After initially maintaining her silence while video of the encounter went viral, McLaughlin spoke out on Tuesday to call Gayle’s remarks “disappointing”. She said: “I don’t really want to be the subject of such conversations, I like just going about my business and doing my job.” She said female sports presenters “want equality, we always want equality”. McLaughlin, who ignored Gayle’s comments during the interview and walked off as he attempted to touch her at its conclusion, said she had accepted his public apology and now wanted to move on.  But the incident, which led to Gayle being fined A$10,000 (£4,800) by his club, has ignited a public debate in Australia over sexism in sport, and over the country’s wider blokeish culture. Another female sports broadcaster, Neroli Meadows, spoke out in defence of McLaughlin, saying Gayle was a “repeat offender” who chose his words in an attempt to “humiliate” female reporters. “You can say that Chris Gayle is never going to change,” she said. “But what should change is the reaction to what Chris Gayle does. It’s not funny. It’s just not.” The reporter, who works for the rival Australian network Fox Sports, added: “I know that people will hear me and just think that I’m being a whinging female, but the thing is, stuff like this happens 10 times a day when you’re in a male-dominated industry and people just need to trust us that it’s not OK. And when we say something like this is offensive, just hear us rather than saying: ‘Oh, shut up, you’re being too serious, just take it as a joke.’ “If somebody pokes you in the arm a hundred times a day every day that you are at work, guess what, at some point you are going to react.” While initially saying there was “no place for that sort of behaviour”, the Renegades’ chief executive, Stuart Coventry, later suggested Gayle’s remarks had been “said in jest” and reflected “more of a cultural difference”. Announcing the club’s intention to fine the player, he said Gayle’s attitude had been “first class” in his time with the franchise and he had merely “said the wrong thing at the wrong time”. Challenged by reporters, Gayle said his comments were “just a joke”. “There wasn’t anything meant to be disrespectful or offensive to Mel,” he said. “If she felt that way, I’m really sorry for that.” To Cricket Australia’s CEO, James Sutherland, however, the remarks were “completely out of line and inappropriate”. He said: “I don’t think anyone should be put in the position Mel McLaughlin was put in. It’s not a nightclub. Those sorts of comments border on harassment and are completely inappropriate in cricket and inappropriate in the workplace.” He said anyone who found the comments funny “is misunderstanding it and somewhat delusional about the situation”, adding: “It’s very, very public. It just goes to show the point about how inappropriate and just not cool that is.” But Sutherland said he felt the public debate that followed the remarks showed the sport had become more inclusive. “Cricket is a sport for men and women, boys and girls and in recent times we have made huge strides to ensure that,” he said. Twenty20 cricket is hugely popular in Australia, with a match last weekend at Melbourne Cricket Ground, in which the Renegades faced local rivals the Melbourne Stars, attracting a record 80,000 fans. Anthony Everard, the head of the Big Bash League (BBL), the country’s domestic Twenty20 tournament, said the competition was “all about its appeal to kids, families and females”. He said: “There’s just no place in the BBL – or, for that matter, cricket anywhere – for that sort of behaviour.” Network Ten has apologised for its “smooth” remark. The channel’s boss, David Barham, told a local radio station that McLaughlin had been “angry and upset” after the encounter. Speaking to Melbourne radio station 3AW, Meadows pleaded with males in the industry to “just please believe what I say and back me, whether you get it or not”.  She said: “My heart beats through my chest when I talk about this, because as a female in this industry you kind of just brush stuff off and you laugh because you do get used to it, whether you should or shouldn’t. But occasionally something happens and you have got to stand up, stand up for Mel and stand up for all of us, and say: ‘It’s not OK.’” 