 This is baby and bathwater territory. Last Monday Mike Marqusee devoted nearly 1,500 words to dismissing the notion of "the spirit of cricket." The odd thing is that in doing so, he didn't really offer much to discredit the claim which I take to be at the heart of that notion: namely, that the game embodies an ideal of fair play. Cricket isn't alone in this, of course; it's part of the ethos of much competitive sport. It's an enduring ideal and aspiration, however often it may be betrayed in practice. In cricket, as Mike notes, it came to be expressed in the admonition "It isn't cricket!" - used to draw attention to some dodgy piece of conduct or other. What does Mike have to say against it? He cites Martin Crowe's judgement that Muttiah Muralitharan is a chucker (on which see this and, more seriously, this), as defaming that cricketer. He says that the expression was "a commonplace in the rhetoric of empire" and that the real game has always involved "large doses of competitive zeal, aggression and rivalry". But these things don't exhaust what cricket is about or the way in which it is played. Mike also points to "shady" areas in the way players relate to the laws of the game. He writes, for example: It is ... said to be against the Spirit of Cricket 'to appeal knowing that the batsman is not out'. That stricture is never applied simply because it can't be. Like other laws of the game, it rests on an unreal conception of the human mind. Cricketers, like the rest of us, hold more than one idea in their head at a time; the line between knowing when the batsman is out and hoping he is out is impossible to draw, and anyway, why should it be the player's job to draw it? It's up to the umpire to 'know' whether the batsman's out. Yet this example provides a way back from Mike's extreme conclusion. He's right in what he says: players will standardly appeal for an LBW decision or a bat-pad catch merely hoping that the batsman is out. There are nevertheless situations in which to appeal would still be regarded as cheating: for instance, when you know for sure the batsman isn't out, as when you've grounded the ball in trying to take a low catch. Many, perhaps most, cricketers don't do it. Warning an opponent before running him out at the bowler's end if he strays beyond the batting crease, "walking" (as a batsman) when you know you're out, rather than waiting for the umpire's decision, showing generosity towards opponents by acknowledging their best efforts even though these are aimed to thwart your own, are all from the same stable. Yes, cricketers, like other sportsmen, try to work the rules to their own advantage, and sometimes they bend them. But it isn't true that there's nothing in - or nothing left of - "the spirit of cricket", as a simple sense of fair play, and the game would be a lot poorer if it were true. Last summer we had a good, much noticed example of that spirit at the conclusion of the Edgbaston Test. 