 11.20am Good Morning from The Riverside, writes Richard Rae, and what a start we've had. Graham Onions' fourth ball (the fifth of the day, Neil Killeen had one left to bowl after nipping out Mark Butcher in the final over last night) yorks Usman Afzaal; and in Killeen's following over, Ali Brown pushes forward, calls Chris Jordan through, stops, starts again, stops, and then retreats to his crease. Jordan, having responded, stopped, and responded again, is left totally stranded without facing a ball. Benkenstein threw down the stumps, though he could have run over and taken off the bails. Surrey, who were 117-2, are now 129-6, and another very decent crowd is very cheerful. Those of us looking forward to seeing Jordan bat, including England selector James Whittaker, are less so. 11.30am Nothing to report from Old Trafford, reports Andy Wilson. Despite morning assurances from the scorers that it would be fine all day, it started drizzling about ten to 11, and the covers have a pretty permanent, no-play-before-lunch sort of appearance. 11.50am And the wickets keep on falling, writes Richard Rae; Nicholson pushes a long way forward - and he's a tall man - pushes lazily across the line at Killeen, and after a long, long look Barry Leadbeater raises the finger. Ali Brown begins to counter-attack in characterstically spectacular fashion, driving Onions for a straight four and then pulling him deep into the crowd at square leg. But at the other end, Jimmy ormond drives half-heartedly at Killer and gets a thick edge to be caught by Di Venuto at second slip. Surrey 160-8, but it's Davies, not Harmison, who Benkenstein turns to in an attempt to finish off the tail. 12.35pm Everyone seemed to be caught on the hop here this morning, writes Paul Weaver. Play actually started at 11. Have you ever heard of such a thing? After the 1.15 and 2.45 kick-offs of the previous two days it felt far too early. Kent resumed on 65 for six and Mushtaq, who has even more of a stanglehold on Kent than he does on other counties, opened the bowling. "Why can't people play him?" an old Gloucestershire player asked me in The Cricketers last night. "He's been bowling everyone out for five years now, and before that he played for Somerset, so he's not exactly a new weapon." The thing about Mushy is that he's always at you. He's not a big spinner of the ball, which is why he gets a high proportion of his wickets bowled and lbw. And being short and from Pakistan he doesn't rely on the bounce which, traditionally, wrist-spinners need. He bowls a great googly and - increasingly of late - a slider that rushes into the batsman. Inevitably it was Mushy who made the breakthrough. From side-on (I'm afraid some guesswork is required from this press box) he seemed to bowl a googly and the left-handed James Tredwell, attempting to work to leg, had his off-stump knocked back. That made it 89-7 and it was 103-8 when Mushy had fellow countryman Azhar Mahmood caught at bat-pad. At that stage Kent still required another 51 runs to avoid the follow-on, though the more overs the Sussex bowlers put in the more Chris Adams will be inclined to bat again. The weather forecast for tomorrow looks OK, so the soggy draw that once looked likely should not be the result now. 1pm ECB administrators have too many problems on their hands at the moment to take much notice of the cricket at Lord's, but Hugh Morris, the managing director of England cricket, has just popped up to the media box to watch his old county, Glamorgan, make a sterling morning recovery against Middlesex, writes David Hopps. That recovery has been organised by Jamie Dalrymple, with a maiden championship fifty for Glamorgan, a measured affair which reminded Middlesex of the talent that they rarely witnessed last season. Dalrymple, ex Oxford University, and Middlesex's captain, Ed Smith, had an uncomfortable relationship which became apparent to all at Southgate last season. It was there that Dalrymple made his highest score of a poor championship season - only 57 - and when he passed his fifty, Smith's outstretched hand received no response. Smith was not present to witness Dalrymple's innings - he has missed this match because of gastric flu - but Glamorgan have reason to think they have pulled off one of the cleverest signings of the season. Glamorgan reached lunch at 173-4, 137 behind, with Dalrymple unbeaten on 69. 1.10pm Forget all that talk about whether or whether not to enforce the follow-on - it's all academic now, says Paul Weaver. Kent's last wicket pair (and they're pretty good by last wicket standards) of Geraint Jones and Yasir Arafat have taken Kent to the 154 they needed to avoid the ignominy of being asked to bat again. At lunch Kent are 156-9 and Jones is looking good on 34. Arafat has hit a muscular 18. 1.30pm Matthew Hoggard struck with the first ball of the third morning to register his best figures for Yorkshire for five years, writes, ahem, the Press Association. Hoggard had Nic Pothas well held low down at first slip by Jacques Rudolph from a perfectly-pitched outswinger for his sixth wicket of the innings. Hoggard sent down a spell of 4-2-6-1 this morning as Hampshire were all out for 159, still 239 behind their hosts. 1.50pm Riverside, begins Richard Rae, and the game continues to move on apace. Third ball after lunch Di Venuto props forward at Ormond, and Leadbeater sends him on his way. Durham 22-1, lead by 63. Having been wandering around the ground during the interval, the talk in the crowd is about the implications of the IPL, but not at all about the action, scores etc. Basically, nobody gives a stuff who wins the games. Or even who gets runs and wickets. Which seems to me something of a problem for the organisers to overcome. 3.20pm In response to what a few of you have been saying I can only share your concerns about Kent, writes Paul Weaver. As a team they simply don't add up to the sum or their parts and that means there must be a problem with the captaincy/coaching situation. It would be a bit harsh to blame the captain, Rob Key, for what has happened here since he was too ill to make the journey from Kent to Sussex. But there does seem a negativity about them and, of course, they lost their opener against Notts. There is not much wrong with the team on paper, with deep batting and a proper spinner, though they lack a cutting edge to their bowling while Amjad Khan battles to get fit. Having said all that there has been a bit more about Kent today. They not only avoided the follow-on, thanks to a last-wicket stand of 82 between Geraint Jones and Yasir Arafat, but then grabbed a couple of quick wickets. Sussex, with a first-innings lead of 99, lost Carl Hopkinson - run out for the second time in the match - in the first over and then opening partner Chris Nash was well caught behind by Jones, diving in front of first slip. That left Sussex 11-2 and suddenly Kent supporters were thinking about an outrageous victory. 3.45pm Still miserable at Old Trafford, says Andy Wilson, but due to start at 4.15. Lancashire must be tempted to declare 17 behind and let their seamers have a bowl before bad light stops play, as seems inevitable. 4.10pm Apologies for the delay in posting, apologises Richard Rae, the Durham wifi has been malfunctioning. Fortunately, or unfortunately, you haven't missed much; the rain arrived as forecast, and I'm very much afraid will prevent further play today. It came with Durham on 76-2, a lead of 117, so as long as we get a full day tomorrow, a positive result is still very possible. The only wicket to fall since the previous update was that of Mark Stoneman, leg before to Saqlain for 23. Yes, the umpire was Leadbeater. Again. Kyle Coetzer and Neil McKenzie were giving Chris Jordan a bit of tap, but he was responding well when the rain came. I sat down with Chris for a chat once it became clear there wasn't going to be a quick resumption, and can report he is a thoroughly charming young man, who hasn't made up his mind where he'll play Test cricket - in fact he made the eminently reasonable point that he's no idea whether he'll be good enough to play Test cricket at all. He will though. In the meantime, he says the Surrey dressing room is thoroughly clued up musically, with both Messrs Butcher and Ramprakash appreciating and supportive of his and Pedro Collins' preference for a burst of reggae in the mornings. 4.20pm Andy Wilson: Play abandoned for the day at Old Trafford. Now looks condemned to become a low-scoring draw. 6.15pm Kent continued to enjoy success against Sussex this afternoon and we could have a really good day's cricket tomorrow if the weather holds, which it should, writes Paul Weaver. Sussex were 42-3 when Michael Yardy was caught behind and then 46-4 when Murray Goodwin got underneath a pull and was well caught at long leg. They lost their fifth wicket at 54 when Chris Adams was thrillingly caught by the diving Martin van Jaarsveld at first slip and Kent could really see the prospects of a win. For the second time in the match, Matt Prior and Luke Wright turned it round for Sussex, both hitting half-centuries. They put on 115 before Prior, again batting fluently, was lbw to one that kept low. Then, as the day closed, Wright, cutting, played on. At 179-7 Sussex lead by 278. Kent have really come back into this game today to set up a potential thriller. 