 Michael Vaughan spoke with a large dose of relief, a dollop of indignation and a hint of incredulity after presiding over his 25th win in 47 Tests as captain and one of his most improbable. At lunch on Sunday his players were grimly preparing to become only the fifth English side to lose a home Test to New Zealand. Twenty-four hours and a session later they were celebrating a get-out-of-jail victory that will send them into next week's third and final Test at Trent Bridge with a 1-0 lead and renewed conviction that they are heading in the right direction for the Ashes next year. "It's certainly very close to being as good a win as we've had because of where we were on Sunday," said Vaughan. "We were dead and buried and to be sat here saying that we've won the game is a hell of an achievement. "We all felt that the wicket was going to deteriorate and we had to show a lot of mental strength. It pleases us more than anything that a young, developing side showed a lot of character. We didn't just lie down: we put New Zealand on the back foot from a position where they were well on the front foot. In probably an hour's cricket we swayed the game in England's favour." If the batsmen took advantage of some judicious use of the heavy roller before the start of play - Vaughan called the move "a bit of a punt" - to complete England's fifth-highest winning total in the fourth innings of a Test, then their captain acknowledged the game turned when Monty Panesar embarked on his spell of six for 17 in 85 balls on Sunday afternoon. At that stage New Zealand led by 264 with seven second-innings wickets in hand plus the injured Daniel Flynn, only then to implode in spectacular fashion. "I always think the third innings is a tricky one to bat, especially when you've got a lead," said Vaughan. "I'm not saying New Zealand were complacent but you can get ahead of the game. I've been in situations like that and you can relax a little bit. I think it's a lesson to everyone that, if you do relax on that kind of pitch, you can lose wickets in clusters." The mild indignation came as the England captain defended a batting line-up that has come under increasing pressure since taking candy off West Indies a year ago. "We've shown under pressure that this batting unit can be successful," he said while conceding that Ian Bell and Paul Collingwood, who chipped in with unbeaten 20s to see England home, had to deal with pressures of their own. "To be there at the end hitting the winning runs will give those two a massive confidence boost. We're a lot happier as a team." Part of Vaughan's challenge in the months ahead will be to manage expectations in advance of the arrival of the Australians in 2009. He admitted there were a lot of things still to work on but used his third win in the last four Tests against New Zealand to discern "some good traits", not least the manner in which the batsmen knocked off the 294 needed for victory. "I was very confident we'd get over the line," he said. "We felt if we could start in positive fashion, look solid and run between the wickets, that would drive the confidence through into the dressing-room. The pitch did deaden and there weren't that many gremlins out there, so we felt at ease. "It's amazing how a game can shift in terms of momentum. The situation of chasing 294 was always going to be a difficult one but for some reason we felt very comfortable getting those runs because the ball didn't seem to be coming off the pitch as fast as it did in the first innings." But for all the upbeat talk, Vaughan knows he was only an hour of sensible New Zealand batting away from going 1-0 down to a side largely written off before the series began. More carelessness in Nottingham may not go unpunished. 