 The Duckworth Lewis Method is a new album, released tomorrow of cricket-inspired songs put together by Irish musicians Neil Hannon (of the Divine Comedy) and Thomas Walsh (of Pugwash). Here the duo discuss growing up as cricket fans in Ireland, the game's quirky appeal, and England's chances this summer When did you first get into cricket? Thomas Walsh I played it as a boy. We lived near a Kellogg's factory in Dublin and there was a big long wall where we drew goalposts for football and stumps for cricket. All my mates played when kids but people wouldn't pursue it because there was no outlet for it in Ireland. Neil Hannon I came to it after I left school. It was in my wilderness years, when I had nothing to do, so watching test cricket was ideal - it filled the void.  Is cricket popular in Ireland? NH It's the love that dare not speak it's name, I guess because it has always been associated with the evil empire across the Irish sea.  Do the Irish support England? NH Yes, though it's lukewarm.  But you want England to win the Ashes? TW No question! What are England's chances? NH Good. The Australians' batting is still strong - Hussey Clarke, Ponting, they can all get runs. But they don't have the bowling attack they used to. England have a knack of losing though. TW Pietersen is a huge factor; he's the best player to watch in the world at the moment. I think England will win 2-1. NH I think 5-0 to England!  Did you see the 2005 Ashes triumph? NH Yes! It was the first time in 10 years when I had a summer free. And I saw the victory parade in Trafalgar Square, when Flintoff made a fool of himself.  Who are your all-time favourites? TW I loved Bob Willis. Viv Richards too, and Beefy [Ian Botham]. We both love Mike Gatting. Although he's going to kill us when he hears "Jiggery Pokery" [about Gatting being bowled by Shane Warne to the "Ball of the Century"].  What do you think of Twenty20 cricket? NH It's great fun, and who are we to quibble. It gets the juices flowing for a lot of people who wouldn't have anything to do with cricket otherwise. But you don't get the subtleties, the artistry of test cricket.  What is it about cricket that inspired you to write songs? NH It's the history, the clothes, the colours. And there's a fantastic resonance to the game's language. TW You couldn't write an album like this about football because, dare I say it, football doesn't have the class. NH  I love football, but it doesn't have the atmosphere you can create around cricket. There's something about the whole village-green aesthetic. And because the games are so long, weird things always happen.  Is this an album only for diehard fans? NH I hope not. Lots of the songs use the game's phrases as a jumping off point, and aren't really about cricket at all. 