 The first-class cricket season does not start until today but ball tampering is already alive and well. Rob Key, the Kent captain and 15 times an England Test player, has admitted using sandpaper on the ball to assist reverse swing during a friendly match with Nottinghamshire at Canterbury. The damning images were captured by a freelance photographer Ady Kerry and Key admitted afterwards that he may have been "naïve". He added: "My conscience is clear. I won't be going out and scratching the ball the way I have in this game in a first-class match but these games are used for practice and are a good opportunity to see where people are.  "The way the game is moving forward for bowlers nowadays is through reverse swing, so what we've tried to do throughout our pre-season nets was to get brand new balls, sandpaper one side, and let the boys practise bowling. It actually goes really well. Maybe I've been a bit naive but it didn't really occur to me that this might develop into a match-fixing scandal."  The match took place on Thursday and Friday last week and early in the afternoon session on Thursday, as the fielders changed ends between overs, Key was seen to take something from his right pocket and to rub the ball with it.  The match was umpired by two local officials, Pip Burrows from Sevenoaks and John Halliday from Canterbury, who appeared oblivious of the special treatment being given to the ball.  Burrows said later: "We weren't aware of anything going on but had we been I dare say we would have investigated. As a practice game it doesn't come under the auspices of the England and Wales Cricket Board. Chris Kelly, the umpires and match operations manager at the ECB, said yesterday: "These were not ECB panel umpires and in friendly matches like this it's common for sides to come to various arrangements between themselves. But if these arrangements were not in place I would like to think the umpires would officiate as they would any other game." Equally the Notts players had no idea what was going on. Mick Newell, the Nottinghamshire director of cricket, said yesterday: "It's not what you normally expect and we weren't aware of it.  "If I had noticed it I would have asked him what was going on. But when it was brought to our attention after the game we didn't really make any issue of it. All I was bothered about was getting some good practice and as we scored plenty of runs whatever was going on didn't seem to affect the ball very much. It has never crossed my mind to do that even in a friendly. But I know that Rob would not dream of doing it in a proper match and this was only a practice game."  Kent's chief executive Paul Millman has confirmed that the county will not be taking any action against Key, 27, who is starting his second season as captain. Millman explained that the game was "formalised practice" and did not come under the control of the ECB. The county's director of cricket, Graham Ford, South Africa's former Test coach, said yesterday: "I can't answer for what Robert's done. I had no idea it was happening. But it wasn't even a proper practice match. There were 15 or 16 players a side and some of them batted twice. Some of the younger bowlers had been asked to work on their reverse swing skills and Rob wanted to see if they could do it. Robert - and anyone else involved in the match - would not condone ball-tampering in a proper match."  Kent, where Colin Cowdrey once captained and EW Swanton glowered behind his gins and tonic, is cricket's quintessential establishment home - the retired brigadier's county of choice. But when Steve Waugh played there in 2002 and popped a proffered mint in his mouth in his first match he was surprised when another player told him: "No! That's not to eat. That's to use on the ball later on."  The most infamous example of alleged ball-tampering involving an English player was Mike Atherton's "dirt in the pocket" affair in 1994, when he was England captain. 