 Matthew Hoggard will have had plenty to discuss with his erstwhile England colleague Steve Harmison last night, not least another eye-catching performance by Graham Onions that offered further disturbing evidence of the new generation of pacemen threatening the veterans' international future. Out-of-date posters around the ground provided Hoggard with a poignant reminder that this time last year he was one of the pin-up boys of the Test team, chosen as the face of England's official brewer. Now the 31-year-old, having lost a little of his pace and therefore his place over the winter, finds himself on the outer, with younger drinkers such as James Anderson appearing in the beer ads. The future appears little brighter for Harmison, 29, despite his admirable willingness to knuckle down with Durham this summer. He produced a couple of unplayable snorters when Yorkshire launched their second innings just before tea yesterday, and polished off the last two wickets, including Hoggard's, in his most controlled spell of the match as Durham won in the extra half-hour. But, as in the first innings, it was Onions who did the early damage, reducing Yorkshire to 10 for three and ending with eight in the match. Hoggard had bowled steadily enough after spending most of Thursday on the M1 following his omission from England's Lord's XI. He swung the ball into the left-handed Mark Stoneman to win an lbw, and away from Neil McKenzie to induce a loose drive and an edge. But it was Tim Bresnan, eight years his junior, who was the pick, collecting two more wickets to go with the four he took in Durham's first innings. At 63 for four, Durham had a lead of only 275 and their captain Dale Benkenstein must have been uneasy about his decision not to enforce the follow-on when Yorkshire were on the rack on Thursday, especially with Michael Di Venuto nursing a bruised finger in the pavilion. But Benkenstein's response was typically unobtrusive and effective, steering his side to 119 for six at lunch and then sharing an unbroken seventh-wicket stand of 93 with Di Venuto before sacrificing a likely century to set Onions and Harmison loose before tea. Onions, again bowling fast and full, had the left-handed Adam Lyth lbw in his first over, then in his third he removed the two senior batsmen in a callow Yorkshire line-up: Anthony McGrath was also leg-before and Jacques Rudolph edged a beauty that swung in then left him off the pitch. Andrew Gale flashed loosely at Harmison in the last over before tea, and a chastening defeat was then inevitable. 