 10.20am: Good morning all. It's the final week of the county blog this week and we're at three games today. The most important games are all in Division 2 as the promotion race is tight. Derbyshire v Hampshire will be watched by Richard Rae while Richard Gibson will be keeping an eye on the action at Essex V Yorkshire. All things in Division 1 have been decided but Michael Perkins is at Lancashire v Surrey to keep you up to date with the goings-on there. 10.36am: Surprisingly, at least for anyone who followed last night's T20 down the road in Manchester, the prospects of play between Surrey and Lancashire were looking good at Aigburth, writes Michael Perkins. Unfortunately though the scrawliest of scrawly showers meant my arrival at Liverpool Cricket Club was greeted with the expected array of sheets and covers. I'm told there will be an inspection at 11am. This fixture was looking like it would decide the second relegation spot in Division One but Surrey's 195-run win over Nottinghamshire and Lancashire's 109-run defeat to Middlesex meant Surrey secured their survival on Friday. The squads for the game reflect this, with Murali Kartik and Kevin Pietersen not featuring for Surrey. Ashwell Prince is also left out for Lancashire, but their 19-year-old wicketkeeper Alex Davies will make his debut if the rain relents. 10.38am: Good Morning from Derby, writes Richard Rae, marvelling at the sight of one of those fancy advertising boundary markers covering the usual rope around the County Ground for quite possibly the first time – a sign that the cameras are here for the duration of the most important game in Derbyshire's recent history. Perhaps that knowledge has kept their supporters at home, rather than turning out in the numbers Wayne Madsen and his team must have hoped.  It's been interesting reading the pre-match interviews: coach Karl Krikken has been trying to take the pressure off by saying that whatever happens, Derbyshire are entitled to be proud of their efforts this season, which is undoubtedly true, but won't be much compensation if somehow or other they are pipped by Kent and Yorkshire. Hampshire have turned up with a respectable side – David Griffiths comes in for Riazuddin – and Clare, as expected, hasn't made it for Derbys. At home, where they've played so well, surely Derbyshire won't make a malty evening drink of it. 11.38am: Well I'm afraid there hasn't been much change here at Aigburth, other than battening down the hatches on the temporary press box, writes Michael Perkins.  There was an inspection of sorts at 11am, but no real news to report other than the fact it is still looking pretty soggy out there in the middle. There will be another inspection at 12.30pm, with an early lunch to be taken at 12pm.  I'm told it is pretty messy out there, because the rain has started to seep under the outer sheets and onto the run ups. The message is basically that if there is any more rain, that will be it for today. I'd say that is fairly likely, despite some uneasy sunshine currently sitting in the sky above. 11.43am: It's probably a good job that Joe Root was not relying on his innings this morning at Chelmsford to sway the England selectors in their choice of personnel to tour India this winter, writes Richard Gibson. Root, 21, is favourite to replace the recently retired Andrew Strauss as Test opener. The England hierarchy were impressed with his development he made against spin last winter under the guidance of lead batting coach Graham Thorpe, both at the National Performance Centre at Loughborough and in Mumbai and Pune. That is likely to be of more relevance than his third-ball duck in Yorkshire's pivotal Division Two contest – pinned half-forward in Graeme Napier's first over of the morning. Preliminary talks on the shape of the party for the four-match campaign have already taken place and new captain Alastair Cook was due to have his input ahead of tomorrow's final international match of the season.  His was the solitary departure in the opening hour, however, as opening partner Adam Lyth rattled the visitors to 72 for one. Lyth's half-century came up in only 46 minutes and included nine fours. 12.44pm: It can't have taken Wayne Madsen long to decide to bowl first after winning the toss at Derby, writes Richard Rae. In fact, given how green the wicket is, four wickets in the first session must have been the least of Derbyshire's expectations, but from 59-4, Hampshire have recovered somewhat to take lunch on 106-4 off 29 overs. Michael Carberry was bowled by Tony Palladino off the inside edge, and Palladino also got Bilal Shafayat, caught by Dan Redfern at second slip, and Liam Dawson leg before, before Jimmy Adams was superbly caught by Usman Khawaja low down at second slip off Ross Whiteley, but James Vinceand Sean Ervine are unbeaten on 48 (off 45 balls) and 16 respectively. Members of the press corps who should know better have amused themselves by teasing the Derby Evening Telegraph about a possible points deduction, but the pitch has been lively rather than unplayable. The crowd, however, is disappointingly small, even for Derby. 1.00pm: Play between Lancashire and Surrey has been abandoned, reports Michael Perkins. Right on cue another shower rolls in after an hour and a half of unbroken sunshine. It was looking as though the sun and the light breeze might dry the ground out enough for play to start. I'm afraid those hopes have now been dashed and play has been abandoned for today. There has been some speculation here as to whether Kevin Pietersen's absence from this game – which will not be affected by any improvement in the weather – will allow for another meeting to be arranged with the ECB to iron out his differences with the team's hierarchy. That's the end of my weather reports for today. I'll be back hoping to dodge the showers tomorrow. 1.08pm: Yorkshire have made a decent start to their quest to beat Essex and seal promotion back to the top flight of the County Championship at the first time of asking, writes Richard Gibson. Although Joe Root was dismissed in the second over of the morning, opening partner Adam Lyth propelled Division Two's second-placed team along at a fair old lick before lunch. Lyth, whose half-century came up in just three quarters of an hour, was also dismissed as Yorkshire reached the interval on 111 for two. Both wickets were claimed by Graham Napier, whose quick bouncer caught Lyth's glove on the way through to wicketkeeper James Foster, during his second spell of the morning.  As in my previous post, England's selectors have been impressed by the way Root has adapted his game since bursting onto the first-team scene two years ago. So not much weight will be given to his failure here at sunny Chelmsford. He succumbed after being pinned half-forward in Napier's first over of the morning from the River End. Preliminary talks on the shape of the party for the four-match campaign have already taken place and new captain Alastair Cook was due to have his input ahead of tomorrow's final international match of the season.  The other candidates for the top of the order are Hampshire's one-cap wonder Michael Carberry, Warwickshire's Varun Chopra and Nick Compton, of Somerset, the first man to 1000 first-class runs this season. But Root has been the constant as opener for England Lions in their three Tests this summer, and struck an impressive unbeaten 115 in the win over West Indies and another 70 on a turning Old Trafford track against Australia A last week. 2.30pm: Some quick thoughts from batsman Karl Brown on Lancashire's relegation, courtesy of Michael Perkins. "I'm a fan as much as a player I used to watch Lancs when I was a kid and I'm as disappointed as anyone and I know firsthand how everyone else feels. I know we must have let a few people down over it and we just want to put things right for next season. We won't leave any stones unturned and we're going to go out there and I think we will get back up next season." 3.31pm: The Derbyshire plan has become clear at the County Ground, writes Richard Rae. It's for one of Yorkshire and Kent to lose, because Hampshire, having been in serious danger of being blown away at 59-4 after an hour of play, take tea at 232-6.  The two wickets they lost were not so much taken as given away. James Vince – whose previous championship best this season was 48 – was on 114 when he slapped a wide half-volley from Ross Whitely straight to Usman Khawaja at short extra cover, but that wasn't as bad as Sean Ervine's 'dismissal' with the score on 195. Having been in no trouble whatsoever in going to 61, Ervine decided to try and reverse sweep left-armer David Wainwright coming over the wicket and missed a straight ball. 3.37pm: As I type there is a bloke batting out in the middle at Chelmsford kitted out as a banana, reports Richard Gibson. I've not really seen the funny side of that as a dozen locals enjoy a knockabout on the outfield during the tea interval. Must be lost in translation but I think I am supposed to say "amazeballs" in modern parlance. Not sure Jason Gillespie, Yorkshire's first-team coach, will be in the best of humours either following an horriific session of batting by his team. His promotion-chasing team produced some of the ugliest dismissals witnessed anywhere this season to slip from 113 for two to 190 for six, thus relinquishing the early grip they took on this contest.  The afternoon session was delayed a couple of minutes as a small gathering was removed from behind the bowler's arm at the Hayes Close End. At least, Australian Phil Jaques would have had an excuse for his lapse in concentration seconds later when he top-edged a pull to long leg. Yorkshire captain Andrew Gale then miscued horribly to cover attempting to hit Tom Westley's occasional off-spin over long on, Gary Ballance popped a catch to mid-on from a delivery that stopped slightly in the pitch and Anthony McGrath followed in Reece Topley's next over when he was the victim of a leg-side strangle. 5.38pm: There has been some stern resistance from Yorkshire post-tea: so much so that the one wicket they lost heading into the final half-a-dozen overs was that of Andrew Radd, run-out following a mix-up with Azeem Rafiq, writes Richard Gibson. Consecutive half-century stands, however – the latter between Rafiq and Ryan Sidebottom – have pushed the promotion seekers to 274 for seven, and within sight of a third batting point. 5.54pm: Derbyshire may be pleased to have bowled out Hampshire for 272, and so picked up the three bonus points they need to ensure that if they win they are promoted whatever happens elsewhere, reports Richard Rae from the County Ground, but that outcome remains very far from assured.  They had the benefit of some "interesting" umpiring decisions in getting rid of the Hampshire tail once Michael Bates had edged Wes Durston to Khawaja at slip – David Griffiths appeared to miss the ball by inches when he was given out caught behind – but to lose three wickets of their own before the close swung the match back towards the visitors.  Wayne Madsen was caught down the legside and Paul Borrington edged a beauty from Balcombe, before Durston – who should have been run out before he scored – reached for a wide one from Wood and edged to Dawson at second slip. 5.57pm: And that's it for the county liveblog for the day – the comments will stay open for any more reports and debates. You can follow all the latest reports on our dedicated cricket site. Thanks for following. 