 Raymond Illingworth led the tributes to Phil Sharpe, describing his former Yorkshire and England team-mate, who has died at the age of 77 after a short illness, as “a very good cricketer and a very good bloke”. Sharpe will, as his Yorkshire contemporary and the current county president Dickie Bird said, be remembered as “one of the best slip fielders” the game has seen. But he also had an impressive batting record for both county and especially country, averaging more than 46 in the 12 Tests he played between 1963 and 1969. “In my opinion he should have played more times for England,” added Bird. He received his first call-up in 1963, for the third Test against West Indies at Edgbaston under the captaincy of Ted Dexter, and alongside his Yorkshire team-mates Brian Close and Fred Trueman. It was an impressive debut, as he caught Wes Hall off Dexter’s bowling and then followed 23 in his first Test innings with an unbeaten 85 in the second, the highest of a low-scoring match which England won by 217 runs. He added a second catch, Garfield Sobers off the bowling of Derek Shackleton, in the second innings. He failed twice in the next Test, at Headingley, but made 63 and 83 in the fifth and last Test at The Oval, the only England batsman to score a half-century against a formidable West Indies attack of Hall, Sobers, Charlie Griffith and Lance Gibbs. That secured his place on the winter’s tour of India but he only played in one Test in that series, and then lost his place after two Tests of the following summer’s Ashes series, both of them rain-affected draws. He did not play for England again until the home series against West Indies in 1969, by which time he was 32, having started his first-class career relatively late. He made an important 86 in the second innings as England avoided defeat in the second Test at Lord’s, then scored the only century of his Test career against New Zealand at Trent Bridge later in the summer, sharing a second-wicket partnership of 249 with John Edrich after Geoffrey Boycott had gone for a duck. Illingworth was the captain by that stage and explained: “The thing about Sharpy early in his career was he struggled a bit on slow, turning pitches because he had been brought up playing at Worksop College on good pitches. That was why I always felt he would do well in Test cricket on good pitches, and an average in the mid-40s is very good. “He was worth his place for his fielding any way. The ball seemed to have gone past him but his hand would come out and take the catch as it went past. Sometimes if he’d snaffled it like that and we couldn’t see, he’d pop it in his pocket. “He took so many great catches but I do remember one in particular, at Lord’s against the West Indies [in 1969]. He’d fielded at slip all day and I doubt many balls had gone to him, but in the last over of the day John Shepherd pushed forward at me and edged it. The ball wouldn’t have been more than an inch off the floor and Sharpy dived and took it one-handed. The catch was very good but it was the concentration that you really had to admire, after six hours out in the field. “We used to laugh, he’d come into the dressing room and say how tired he was and Padgy [Doug Padgett], who’d been running around in the covers, would ask him how he could be, after standing at slip all day. He’d say it was tiring concentrating, and that’s right, isn’t it?” Sharpe scored a total of 17,685 runs (and took 526 catches) in 411 first-class appearances for Yorkshire between 1958 and 1974, appearing in seven County Championship-winning seasons, and also in the 1965 Gillette Cup final victory against Surrey. He then joined Derbyshire for two seasons and made a swansong at the age of 47 when he captained Norfolk in a NatWest Trophy tie at Leicester, in which he was lbw to Les Taylor for a duck before a young David Gower hit an unbeaten half-century. He remained a regular presence on county grounds as a pitch inspector until 2011. Bird added: “I grew up with Philip in the nets at Yorkshire. He was one of the best slip fielders I ever saw. He would be ranked amongst the very best alongside the likes of Mark Waugh, Bobby Simpson, Ian Botham and Ian Chappell. Philip was a true gentleman, and he will be a sad loss to Yorkshire cricket.” His life and career will be celebrated at Headingley on Sunday on the opening day of the first Roses match of the season. 