 Close of play: Kent: 317 (97.2 overs) Yorkshire: 280-8 (92.0 overs) Nottinghamshire: 250 (87.0 overs) Somerset: 272 (76.1 overs) & 120-6 (24.0 overs) Surrey: 493 (117.0 overs) Worcestershire: 262-3 (76.0 overs) 5.51pm: OK, writes Mike Selvey, a quick return to say that Somerset are in a spot of bother here against a rampant Stuart Broad, who has taken 4 for 7 in 17 balls to leave the visitors imperilled on 33 for five. It could have been worse but Tres has just been dropped at second slip by Neil Edwards so 33 for six avoided for the moment. 5.30pm: The second new ball has brought an immediate impact for Kent at the St Lawrence ground, writes David Hopps, in what could well be his farewell missive of the day. When Kent took it at 242 for six, 10 overs from the end of a fascinating day, Jonathan Bairstow and Adil Rashid were both in still in residence with half-centuries to their name. Amjad Khan put Bairstow on his backside with a bouncer, first ball, the second ball was cracked high over point fr four and Bairstow edged the third to second slip. The brothers (self-proclaimed) are at the crease for Yorkshire now, Rashid and Ajmal Shahzad, Rashid as quiet as Shahzad is boisterous. The last 40 minutes of the day could have a major bearing on this game. Personally, I would have sent in David Wainwright to try to get through the new ball and leave Shahzad for the morning. 5.25pm: Imitation being the sincerest form of flattery I thought I should look at a rival website at their own rolling blog, writes Mike Selvey. Plenty of words above the line but not a single response. Not one. Either it is being moderated by the Stasi or there is some apathy around. Meanwhile here, Stuart Broad, after going round the park in his first three overs (3-0-18-0), finally thrashed something out of the middle of the pitch that Arul Suppiah could not control, the ball looping to gully from the shoulder of the bat. Tres looks in majestic form once more though and already has cuffed away a couple of dismissive boundaries. Now if you will excuse me, I've got a bit of work to do. 5.03pm: Selv, as I remember it's not quite the World Famous Trent Bridge Inn these days, is it, writes David Hopps at Canterbury. Last time I was there it looked a bit dilapidated and seemed to have been renamed something like the "orld Famous T ent Bridge Inn". Or something like that. Yorkshire are now 227 for six. New ball five overs away. 5pm: We are being peppered in our tent, writes Vic Marks at Whitgift. It's at long on and well within Solanki's range. I'm guarding my old Guardian Mac as best I can, while trying to retain vital body heat. Solanki has a hundred, Moeen is on target for one and there are signs of wheels loosening, if not coming off, in the Surrey camp. Schofield is bowling the odd no-ball. One produced a return catch when Solanki was on 94; another was hit for six over mid-off by Moeen, which means eight more runs to the Worcestershire score from a single, illegitimate delivery. Hamilton-Brown still looks the part, hands on hips at cover and Surrey have been very noisy in the field, but this Worcestershire pair have blunted the optimism of the morning. Schofield has just been replaced by Nel so don't expect the decibel count to reduce. 4.50pm: This is such an enjoyable game at Canterbury that I have quite forgotten to blog about it, writes David Hopps. Kent fought back yesterday from 131 for five to make 317, and Yorkshire are threatening to do likewise as from 120 for six they have sailed past 200 without losing another wicket. The fightback is in the hands of Adil Rashid and Jonathan Bairstow, who has just glanced Amjad Khan for four to reach his 50 from 129 balls. The sun is shining and the ball, now heading to its 70th over, is being middled with conviction. Yorkshire are intent upon kicking on before the new ball arrives. I will never be able to watch Jonathan Bairstow bat without musing at some stage about his dad, David Bairstow, leader of so many uphill cavalry charges when skipper of a poor Yorkshire side in the mid-80s. Then Bluey used to talk about his young side with such pride that nobody dared to question his loyalty but, in truth, too many of his players lacked quality. His dad was one of the most popular players in Yorkshire's history, his refusal to recognize a lost cause (and he saw a few) being one of the few consolations for a long-suffering membership. But it is Jonathan who is playing in a side with real potential and it is Jonathan who is a proper batsman. He will do his late father proud. I remember bumping into Bluey walking to the ground at Scarborough one morning when his career was in its final phase. Bluey was injured (his hands were wrecked late in his career) and I had just praised his replacement, Richard Blakey, rather too fulsomely in print. "You don't know anything – he couldn't keep bloody chickens," complained Bluey, and ranted at me all the way down North Marine Drive, breaking off every so often to wish a cheery "good morning" to passers by before continuing his diatribe. This pretence eventually caused me some amusement. "I don't bloody get you," said Bluey. "I give you the biggest bollocking you have ever had in your life and all you can do is giggle." 4.45pm: Good tidings from Trent Bridge, Victor, writes Mike Selvey. Little resistance from Nottinghamshire after tea, subsiding as they have from 234 for seven to 250 all out, a deficit on first innings of 22. Even as I pressed the button on the last post, Franks was lbw to Willoughby for 61, and, after Adams had hooked a six from Damien Wright, he was then castled by the same bowler aiming for the roof of the World Famous Trent Bridge Inn (and my car in the car park below the walls come to think of it). Willoughby finished with four for 40 with the rest spread around. 4.30pm: Stuart Broad has a new bat manufacturer apparently but at this rate they might want their money back, writes Mike Selvey. Done by Charl Willoughby and the new nut, taken immediately on the resumption. A ball pitched on a length outside off stump, moving away a tad, an indecisive prod and a neck high catch to James Hildreth at second slip, taken with knees bent and fingers pointing upwards. Somerset should get a lead out of this unless Franks has a golden half an hour with Andre Adams. 4.01pm: Solanki has batted beautifully, taking the attack to the spinners and nullifying their threat, writes Vic Marks at Whitgift. He greeted Schofield with a six and a four as well. Just had a chat with dear old Pat Pocock. Actually that's not quite right. Just been listening to dear old Pat Pocock for the last half-hour. His enthusiasm for the game never wanes nor does his capacity to talk about it without pause for breath. Which reminds me of the tale involving Pocock and his old team-mate and friend, Robin Jackman. They roomed together for years at Surrey even though their lifestyles were not so compatible. Pocock liked to sleep at night - usually early to bed with a modest amount of alcohol. Jackman was rather the opposite, a night owl who rarely declined a nightcap. So dear old Pat devised a system to ensure that all was peace in their union. As he went to bed just as Jackman was warming to the night's festivities Pocock left the bathroom light on; he removed all furniture that might prove an obstacle to an incoming - and possibly swaying - Jackman out of the way; he folded back the Jackman sheets and he lovingly left the Jackman toothpaste on the Jackman toothbrush. And they lived happily ever after. Worcester 131 for two at tea. 4pm: With tea, and the Trent Bridge press box scones, approaching, Notts have just lost an important wicket, writes Mike Selvey. Chris Read had come to the crease at 124 for five, and by the time Peter Trego had him lbw, he and Paul Franks, together after the loss of Amla, had added 102 for the seventh wicket to pull them back into the match. A new ball will soon be due however and that may precipitate and end to the innings. Franks, an England one day one cap wonder, has played a robust innings, standing tall and scoring freely through extra cover off both front and back foot. Now is the time to see how Stuart Broad copes with the bat. His bowling looked rusty yesterday and his batting has shown little advance beyond "potential" for a while now. He is almost certain to be England's number eight again later this summer, and next winter which is still a place too high at the moment, never mind seven where he might find himself against Bangladesh. But move Graeme Swann up and you risk losing the essence of what has made him such a lower order thorn. Anyway, time to start delivering if he has ambitions to be a genuine rather than handy all rounder. Tea is here and Notts are 234 for seven. 3.10pm: Kent have the upper hand against Yorkshire, whose leadership of Division One is beginning to look, dare I suggest it, somewhat tenuous, writes David Hopps in Canterbury. James Tredwell has just taken two wickets in two balls to leave Yorkshire calamitously placed at 120 for six. Adil Rashid has survived a hat-trick ball bowled with eight men around the bat. Kent were 131 for five about this time yesterday, and made 317, and Yorkshire's redoubtable lower-order will have to be at its best to match it. Tredwell's dismissal of Jacques Rudolph for 38 was the wicket Kent most needed, but the departure that made no sense was that of Tim Bresnan, who had a huge mow at his first ball and edged to slip, an embarrassing exit for a wannabee England all-rounder. Kent felt their first innings score was OK, no better, so this has all come for them as a welcome surprise. The sound of Yorkshire wickets falling has interrupted my efforts to skim through Trophies and Tribulations (Greenwich Publishing: £16.99, but considerably cheaper on the website apparently), by Clive Ellis and Mark Pennell, an enjoyable and authoritative journey through the last 40 years of Kent cricket. Both students of the Kent scene are at Waterstone's in Canterbury tonight for a signing session and, considering the worthless ghosted pap that fills so many cricket shelves these days, they deserve the best of luck. Hopefully it goes better than the lunchtime signing session on the St Lawrence ground which attracted three people. I have been chuckling over Kent's approach to the 1997 Benson and Hedges final when they were thumped by eight wickets. Nigel Llong admits that they became a little too obsessed with appearances. "The way we prepared for that final was horrendous. We had team meetings galore about which hotel we should stay in, what we should wear to the ground and who should supply us with clothes, but at no time did we sit down and talk about how we could bowl to Ali Brown." 3pm: The antennae are out now, writes Vic Marks at Whitgift. Gareth Batty has been introduced and the ball is turning. His first over to Solanki was intriguing. Batty set an aggressive field: three around the bat, three on each side saving the single, so no one was on the boundary. His first ball spins into the right-hander and ends up in the hands of Arun Harinath at silly point. A vigorous appeal for a catch is rejected. Next ball Solanki pull-drives for six over mid-wicket. Out goes a fielder and extra cover is moved to the on-side. Next ball Solanki sweeps for four. Out goes another fielder. Then Solanki drives the next two balls hard on the off-side, straight to backward point and then into the shins of Harinath, who is felled for a couple of minutes. To finish there is a model forward defensive. A fine duel is ion prospect for these former clubmates. The ball is turning a lot, though slowly. There is pressure on the batsmen, but also on Batty at his new club. Here's a chance to prove his worth. The early overs as the batsmen acclimatise to the turn are crucial. Spin on a dry, crusty surface in April...remarkable. So far Solanki and Moeen have added 74 together. 2.25pm: On the phone again, writes Mike Selvey, this time to the Somerset cricket chairman, and able to tell him at first hand that the Heriot's Former Pupil had just been on the receiving end of something that bounced and left him from the steady but hardly frightening Damien Wright, and was gone for 58. So Nottinghamshire struggling at 138 for six at the moment and regretting their generosity yesterday afternoon. 1.40pm: Happy days, Vic, writes Mike Selvey. Cue fade out to days when hair hung to the shoulders. Nice if just once in my career someone had asked which end I might like. Instead I got WW Daniel grumbling about having to walk back into a stiff breeze. But there was the 47 on the trot at Tunbridge Wells, and bowling unchanged through an entire game against Derbyshire and..... zzzzzzzz 1.25pm: Good progress has been made here, writes Vic Marks at Whitgift. Surrey all out for 493 and within a trice Worcestershire were 0-2 with a wicket apiece for Andre Nel and Iftikhar Anjum. This game may not last four days. I'd forgotten that Surrey had signed Chris Tremlett since he has yet to surface in the Championship. The official line is that they are "managing his workload", and apparently he does have a minor niggle in his groin. I like the notion of "managing his workload". I'm trying to think how Fred Trueman would have reacted to that or indeed Selve up in Nottingham. Not sure that Middlesex managed his workload much in the 70s and 80s. As he will confirm - all too readily, I suspect - the way to manage his workload was to hang out a handkerchief to the wind, discover its direction and then tell him that he was going to bowl into it for the next couple of hours. Did Stuart Surridge manage Alec Bedser's workload? Whoops! Sorry, better return to the 21st century. If Worcester can recover from here it will be worth watch because Solanki and Moeen Ali are easy on the eye. 1.10pm: The demise of Samit Patel, who having played with controlled aggression for his 33, then drove Charl Willoughby to short extra cover, writes Mike Selvey at Trent Bridge. Ali Brown was then immediately lbw offering no shot to Alfonso Thomas' last ball of the session, and, at 124 for five, a good mornings work was undone in a trice. Anyone old enough to remember 'Willoughby' as Rolf Harris' first television character? No? I should get out more. Hashim Amla though is unbeaten on 56. News of Patel's fitness is encouraging. He has been omitted from England squads because of a total lack of commitment to getting fitter. England management did not want a sudden conversion to an Iron Man, but they did want to see a small upward movement in the graph of improvement. Apparently, from the horse's mouth, he is the fittest he has ever been. This might be like saying that Eamonn Holmes is the slimmest he has ever been, but we should be grateful nonetheless. It is only his word though. 1.05pm: Azhar Mahmood has given Yorkshire the toughest of mornings at Canterbury, writes David Hopps. He has taken two for 24 in 10 overs with the new ball and has found enough movement to remind us all that we are still in mid-April. He has contributed the most to an excellent morning's cricket. Kent have taken him off, his figures have been announced to polite applause and Anthony McGrath, with a huge sigh of relief, has just cracked a ball for four. One senses that life for Yorkshire's batsmen is about to become easier. Yorkshire are 76 for three at lunch. Three left-handers have succumbed this morning, with Azhar responsible for Joe Sayers, lbw, and the captain Andrew Gale, caught at slip. They were grateful to get through the lunch without further damage. For much of the afternoon, the sun could be glinting off James Tredwell's head as ferociously as it refects off the car windscreens here. Yorkshire have got the cars covered with blankets, now their batsmen have to contend with Tredwell's learnedly unhairy pate. No wonder that dazzled batsmen misread him in the flight occasionally. McGrath had a dreadful batting summer in 2009, due in part to the demands of a captaincy job that he did not care for. He has offloaded the job to Andrew Gale with much relief, but so far the runs have not returned. On 19, he survived a huge Kent appeal for a catch at the wicket which, had umpire Nick Cook given it, would have brought Azhar his third wicket of the morning. I wonder if that is a turning point? he is 32 not out at lunch. It is worth keeping an eye on the score at Bristol, where Gloucestershire and Sussex could be careering towards a two-day finish. Jack Birkenshaw, the ECB pitch inspector, was at Nevil Road last week when 23 wickets fell in a day in the match between Gloucestershire and Northants. "Bad batting," said Jack and levied no penalty. He took a similar view yesterday as wickets continued to tumble. After watching 20 wickets fall, he pronounced that he had no plans to return and put it down to good swing bowling and poor shot selection. Birkenshaw has been a county coach in his time, so he is not afraid to blame dodgy batting techniques when the ball is hooping around. Good on him. Sussex, at 87 for three, lead by 111. 12.50pm: The phone keeps ringing, writes Mike Selvey. Natter natter, ring again, more natter and suddenly I look up to see Hashim Amla approaching a half-century. I've had a lot of watching Amla this winter too, and he is very watchable. So, even if I haven't seen too much, like Neville Cardus, I can say how he would have played. Hashim by the way is one of my default typing errors, as I used to have with Curlty Ambrose. Thus, it comes out as Hamish. I always think that he, in this guise, together with Kamran Akmal, should be pronounced in a soft Lothian accent and imagined as Heriot's Former Pupils. Notts on Nelson, after a morning in which they have lost only the wicket of Mark Wagh, bowled through the Maurice Tate by David Stiff. 11.50am: Yorkshire have dismissed Kent for 317 at Canterbury, with five wickets for Tim Bresnan, writes David Hopps. And observing all this with a weary eye is Yorkshire's coach Martyn Moxon, who was up before dawn to drive to Heathrow to collect Tino Best, the West Indian fast bowler who will fulfil a short-term contract when Bresnan and Ajmal Shahzad are with England at World Twenty20. Best contacted Yorkshire on a pre-season tour of Barbados to ask to join them at nets and they were so impressed by his enthusiasm that he was invited to play in a two-day game. And now here he is, hoping that a brief burst of county cricket will help to resurrect his West Indies career. Yorkshire are staying in a tacky hotel in Ashford, and last night so did I so I could get an update from Moxon on Yorkshire's start to the championship season. (I did clarify this for Vic yesterday, but just in case he has forgotten, Yorkshire are top.) It was a demoralising place. The girl in the breakfast room could hardly have been more ill tempered when I arrived five minutes late for breakfast (this update comes to you fuelled by four prunes and one sausage) and then the receptionist could not have been more fawning on checkout. Mix them both together and you might have what could pass for normal human behaviour. Two years from now, assuming no disasters ensue, there will be a 130-room hotel on the Canterbury ground, of three-plus star standard, and it is to be hoped that its approach is more enlightened. If Kent have any influence, gentlemen will probably have to dress for dinner and the choice of port on the bar menu will be unsurpassed. For the moment there is no hotel, just another day of crisp blue skies. Yorkshire have lost both openers, Adam Lyth and Joe Sayers, to the new ball within the first half-dozen overs. Anthony McGrath has come in at no 3 in need of runs. They should be capable of batting all day and more on this surface (they are top of the championship after all, Vic). 11.45am: Morning all, writes Vic Marks at Whitgift School. More sunshine and in my newshound role I have already grilled the umpires. To be more precise, I bumped into Rob Bailey on the way to my tent. He says it's dry out there and he hints that it could turn for Surrey's spinners. So Gareth Batty and Chris Schofield will be busy later on. But Schofield was not so busy this morning. He stroked the first ball he received into the hands of cover point just as I was about to muse that he's a better batsman than a bowler - he hit the ball very hard last night. From Schofield Chris to Schofield Ken, the golf man and the person who chaired the latest committee into English cricket. Pat Gibson tells me he spoke superbly at Alec Bedser's funeral earlier in the week. This took place in Woking at a church high enough to have a lot of incense flying around during the ceremony. "I don't know what Alec would have made of that", said Pat. Then he paused and reflected. "Actually I know exactly what he would thought about it." 11am: Another cracking day and drive, writes Mike Selvey at Trent Bridge. Helped by the sublime weather and an absence of other commitment, this past couple of weeks, for a correspondent whose existence is almost exclusively based around international cricket, have been seductively idyllic. It is a holiday. It is back to the roots. In my real world, I get little or no chance to watch the next generation. Like Andy Flower, we rely on word of mouth and reliable opinion. It is not the same as seeing at first hand. So now I know that Leicester's James Taylor can bat, and so can Russell Cobb's lad. I've seen young Buck bowl and Jack Brooks at Northants, who looked ok. And Simon Kerrigan bowled Warwickshire to defeat with his left arm spin while I was at Old Trafford. But enough misty-eyed nonsense. Next week, it will be to Guyana the World Twenty20, face paint (the crowd not me), noise, and the left leg clearing out of the way to welly another hapless bowler over midwicket. For now, unless you happened to be watching Charl Willoughby's largely futile efforts to make contact yesterday, the cricket has been dictated by orthodoxy and aesthetics. First up then Notts trying to claw back after a rubbish afternoon yesterday. 