 Saeed Ajmal is confident Pakistan will not suffer another batting collapse as they look to press home their advantage in the final Test against Sri Lanka in Colombo. The off-spinner claimed three wickets and leg-spinner Danish Kaneria five on day two as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 233 in reply to Pakistan's first-innings total of 299. Pakistan had extended their lead to 82 at the close with one wicket down in their second innings, leaving them in a strong position to secure a consolation win in a series they have already lost. Ajmal, who made his debut in the first Test in Galle that Pakistan lost, has been a consistent performer for the visitors and has so far claimed 13 wickets in three matches. With two specialist spinners in the side, Ajmal believes Pakistan have a good chance of securing victory. "There is a lot of bounce on this pitch and that helps you produce a lot more variation," he said. "The pitch is taking a lot of turn and spin as well so it's going to be tough work for the batsmen. "Hopefully we will be able to get them quickly in the final innings. This is a good wicket to bat on and I think the batsmen have perished because of poor shot selection. But we should get a decent total and not collapse again. I am very happy with the way I've bowled. I'm enjoying myself. When you get wickets, it's always enjoyable," he added. Ajmal has grown in confidence since the Galle Test and he believes he is learning with experience. "It's a different ball game altogether at Test match level but you gain in confidence with every match you play," he said. "There was a little pressure to perform in the first match because it was my debut but it was a huge confidence boost because I was able to bowl with a lot of variation. It's given me huge confidence." Despite being the more accomplished spinner in the side, Kaneria spent the first two matches on the bench. Ajmal said Kaneria's inclusion had helped him bowl better. "He is a senior player and is very experienced. There is a lot to learn from him," he continued. "I thought we complemented each other very well today and we got the wickets at crucial moments. It was great to have him operating from the other end." 