 With 13 players out of contract, the axe hovering for some and their side slipping down the table, a certain amount of edginess in the Warwickshire ranks is understandable, although probably not enough to explain yesterday. They were bowled out in 60 overs, eight catches finding Kent hands between wicketkeeper and second slip - five of them to Martin van Jaarsveld. Such generosity gave the South African a share in Kent's catching record - with nine others - and he had the bonus of wrapping up the Warwickshire innings a long way short of a second batting point. Things being tight in the relegation zone, Kent's maximum bowling points are more than useful and their batsmen have another 89 overs remaining today to harvest more from a bowling attack Warwickshire are understandably desperate to strengthen. After two days lost to rain a draw would not be a totally unpleasant result for either side, although Rob Key is 56 not out and the lead down to 105. The catching practice began when Darren Maddy prodded and was caught at the wicket. Then Van Jaarsveld took over, pocketing four before lunch in support of tidy bowling from Martin Saggers, Yasir Arafat and Ryan McLaren, who slipped through Warwickshire's fingers after being on the Edgbaston ground staff. Van Jaarsveld's only blemish was to put down Luke Parker, the most accomplished of Warwickshire's batsmen until he gave the record-equalling catch to second slip. The 23-year-old was one short of his first half-century of the season, but none the less the top scorer and senior partner in a face-saving stand with Heath Streak. When Adam Shantry went first ball, giving McLaren his fourth wicket and Van Jaarsveld bagged Lee Daggett, Warwickshire's fourth - and final - overseas signing of the season, Alfonso Thomas, was undefeated on 21. After Dale Steyn and Paul Harris, this third South African comes via Audley in the North Staffordshire and South Cheshire league. Warwickshire have approached McLaren for next season but, understandably, that South African is more likely to accept the extension Kent are offering. 