 "Andy Flower wary of pitfalls of 'dead rubber syndrome': England's coach is anxious that the Ashes victors should not relax until the series is won," reports Vic Marks. "Kevin Pietersen says his rebellion helped forge England Ashes triumph - Batsman reopens old wounds over Peter Moores saga," report David Hopps and Andy Wilson. Said Pietersen:  You know what – I have never said this before – I lost the captaincy, I got rid of the captaincy for the good of English cricket, and we would not be here today if I had not done what I did then. There is no way in this world that we would have succeeded under that regime and would have won the Ashes again in Australia after 24 years. Andrew Strauss and Andy Flower need all the plaudits for an unbelievable 18 months and an unbelievable preparation for this team, and they are the right leadership for this team. "Michael Clarke steps up with Australia unconvinced - Vice-captain has 10% approval rating and averages 21," reports Kevin Mitchell. "England coach Andy Flower defends Paul Collingwood." Some interesting points from the Aussie press: Robert Craddock in the Courier Mail on Michael Clarke: Board members, selectors and teammates have had trouble warming to Clarke, perhaps because they were not sure what to make of him, which makes him a contrast to Ponting who has always been a man of simple tastes who likes cricket, golf, greyhounds, horses and football.Clarke, by contrast, is the some of many confusing parts.He grew up in working-class Liverpool in Sydney's west. But though he is part working class, he is also part yuppie, with flash cars, trendy mates, tattoos, hot girlfriend and friendships with Shane Warne and Brian Lara.As a batsman he was a winner of the Allan Border Medal in his first season of international cricket, but he has never quite won our hearts.When Clarke won the AB Medal there was a revealing shot of his teammates in the background, politely applauding. Many of them felt Damien Martyn deserved it more. (via TheGoldenCrumpet) This piece by Peter Roebuck (not strictly an Aussie!) was much debated yesterday: England's victory has also offered insights into the state of that nation, all of them positive. The sight of an England team dancing a jig in front of thousands of travelling supporters, none of them inclined to take themselves too seriously, was encouraging. In much the same way one of the pace bowlers had posed for the front cover of a magazine considered in some quarters to be vulgar and dubious, and another has taken to sending entertaining tweets and making lively videos. (via Usini) Malcolm Conn in the Australian: It's one thing to be flogged by the once mighty West Indies after the upheaval of World Series Cricket and rebel tours of South Africa. It is quite another to be humiliated by a third-ranked nation which has one superstar, the South African-born Kevin Pietersen, when he gets his head right. (Via DirkGently) On a subject close to Andy Bull's heart, I have received this email from Nishant Joshi of AlternativeCricket:  20 of us have written 29 articles for a book that is now available via Amazon for £6.75. All proceeds from the book go to a scholarship for Afghan youth cricket, via the Afghan Youth Cricket Support Organisation. It's a fantastic cause, and ultimately we hope to discover a player who could step up and be an ambassador for Afghanistan, in the mould of Imran Khan, Murali, Tendulkar. This is Rana Naved's hair. (via @garynaylor999) I'm going to say Happy New Year now, but there will be a little New Year something from Lord Selvey, Squire Marks, Parson Hopps and a bit more in tomorrow's blog, the first Ashes Daily of 2011. I hope you all have a top night out (or in) tonight: see you next year. 