 The hopes of David Morgan, the England and Wales Cricket Board chairman, of securing the most senior post in the world game were put on ice yesterday when an International Cricket Council board meeting in Cape Town broke up without agreeing a preferred candidate for the presidency. Instead, having failed to choose between Morgan and his Indian opposite number, Sharad Pawar, the ICC board invited South Africa's Percy Sonn to extend his term to a third year, taking him through to June 2009. The ICC's governance review committee will re-examine the process for identifying his successor. Two days of lobbying left the board split. The ECB chairman is understood to have the support of five full-member nations - England, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and West Indies - while Pawar won support from the Asian block of India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Bangladesh and, crucially, Zimbabwe. The troubled African nation supported Morgan in a vote taken by a nominations committee set up to recommend a preferred candidate but has now fallen in behind Pawar, apparently on the promise of a swift return to full Test status. Few believe Zimbabwe are ready to compete again at that level and Morgan would be justified in feeling aggrieved, given the calculated risk he took in insisting that England fulfil a one-day series in the country in 2004. With the five-five split producing the prospect of the associate members, Kenya, Singapore and Israel, selecting the new chairman, the board decided to look again at the process. Morgan's best chance of being elected seems to rest on the board returning to the rotation system that has previously been in operation. England have never provided a president of the ICC, though the game was run for many decades from the MCC in London. Pawar, the Indian agriculture minister, has been a member of the ICC board for 15 months and, despite his eagerness to secure the presidency, is understood to have spent only an hour in the board meeting on the first day in Cape Town. India's status as the primary revenue generator affords great influence and the prospect of a split between Asia and the rest of the world looms. The ICC has functioned best when both camps have been represented at the top. The executive, Malcolm Speed, an Australian, was most effective in tandem with Sonn's predecessor, Pakistan's Ehsan Mani. 