 Many journalists will tell you that some of the best stories never make it into print [or online]. Because of a multitude of reasons, including libel laws, you'll never really know what Jose Mourinho thought of John Terry, what Matthew Hayden's fellow cricketers think of his Christian sledges, or what Sven-Goran Eriksson made of those columnists that wanted him replaced by homegrown, hoof-it mediocrity. Last week, Indian cricket had one such story. One of India's star names was contemplating a few weeks of rest to recover from the odd niggle or two. Perhaps it was merely a coincidence that the series against South Africa, with the No2 ranking at stake, was to be followed by six weeks of Indian Premier League (IPL), with the kind of financial reward that makes international cricket cheques look like teenagers' pocket change. The player himself was no fancy Dan or attention seeker looking to fill column inches and airwaves - he gets enough of that already. The correspondent he confided in was also entirely trustworthy, not part of Indian television's frivolous breaking-news brigade. My first thought when I heard the story was: why not play through the pain and skip the IPL? After all, this is the first leg of a Grand Slam that pits India against the four best Test sides in the world - South Africa, Sri Lanka, Australia and England. But as a certain Mr Cole could tell you, this is an age when money talks and, in the case of the IPL, it howls like a banshee. Till the IPL auction last month, football, and rugby to a lesser extent, was the only sport where players had to confront the club v country dilemma. In football, there shouldn't really even be a catch-22. International football outside of the World Cup and the continental championships is rubbish, and even the national team managers must secretly agree. For most of us, international week is a time spent nervously hoping that your club talisman doesn't pick up a serious knock going into the business end of the season. And just in case a Fernando Torres, a Cesc Fábregas or a Cristiano Ronaldo does get injured, we'll have voodoo dolls of Aragonés and Scolari handy. Club football is paramount, as it should be. After all, it's the club fans that pay the fat-cat salaries, they who break their hearts on the terraces and in front of TV sets week after week. I've seen tough men weeping in the stands of the Ataturk at half-time on a balmy May evening, and I know just how high the emotions ran when Monster Masch was sent off last Sunday. No matter how serious you are about the Three Lions, few will be sobbing into their replica shirts following last night's French victory. It doesn't count. Every English fan knows that getting it right in time for South Africa 2010 is all that matters. With cricket, the very opposite is true. The riches spilling over from the international pot sustain domestic cricket, which hasn't attracted more than two-men-and-a-canine for decades now. Twenty20 cricket in England and Mumbai matches involving Sachin Tendulkar may have provided the odd exception, but it's country versus country that really gets the pulse racing. For Manchester United v Liverpool, read England v Australia, and if you're looking for more recent spice, then Ganguly against Waugh more than matches Wenger against Ferguson. And like the football clubs, it's the national boards that put food on the players' tables. So the West Indies Cricket Board had every right to be incensed at rumours that three of their top stars might have missed two Tests against Australia because of IPL commitments. Rafa Benítez was rightfully scornful of the now-suspended Mascherano having to travel all the way to Egypt for an utterly meaningless friendly, and in the same way, Caribbean legends of the past might have been perplexed by the idea of Gayle, Chanderpaul and Sarwan putting the needs of Kolkata, Bangalore and Mohali ahead of the chance to wear the maroon. The similarities end there. Footballers turn up for the friendlies because tugging on the national shirt still means something. Cricketers, especially the foreign contingent, will play in the IPL solely because it guarantees a six-digit bank account. There's no tradition to draw you in, no local pride at stake, and no reward other than the Giant-Haystacks-like cheque. The sad reality though is that most national boards can't afford to hand out a fistful of dollars. The Board of Control for Cricket of India (BCCI) is so stuffed with cash that the logo should now be the greenback, yet player payments for Tests and ODIs are teardrops lost in the IPL ocean. Sooner rather than later, someone will face the dilemma that our unnamed player did, and go the other way. Rather than risk injury playing for the only badge that should matter, he'll conserve himself for those six weeks in the Indian summer when the cash registers ring loudest. Don't be surprised if some players make it to the Ashes next year enervated by their quest for greater glory ... under the banner of the Rajasthan Royals or the Chennai Super Kings. 