 You can imagine Peter Moores on The Apprentice. In fact you can imagine him winning The Apprentice. He is personable (not that that appears a necessary quality), diligent, wonderfully well-organised, enthusiastic, intelligent, innovative, ruthless where necessary, speaks management lingo as a first language and is such a dyed-in-the-wool optimist that he could find a positive at the bottom end of a Duracell. Peter Moores, you're hired. A year ago it was the executive of the England and Wales Cricket Board that hired him after Duncan Fletcher, coach for seven years, had called time in Barbados little more than a week earlier. The search for Fletcher's replacement might have covered the higher-profile cricket world but instead, mindful that its in-house programme to produce elite coaches would be worth nothing if it could not produce one for the top job when it was needed, it was Moores, director of the Academy for the previous 18 months and a successful coach at Sussex for the eight years prior to that, who was offered the job. English cricket was at a low ebb: a horrendous Ashes campaign, offset only marginally by an unexpected win in the subsequent one-day series, was followed by a disastrous World Cup with its off-field distractions that became Fletcher's final straw. If it fazed Moores, a modest county player with no international experience, he was not letting on.  "Yes, it was an intimidating prospect," he said. "But I had a view that after eight years coaching in county cricket you get to deal with and talk to a lot of good players. You shape how you are going to deal with them, so from that point of view I felt I could go in there and handle myself. Certainly I needed to gain knowledge of international cricket, the circuit, the surfaces on which we play, and much of that has come from the support team, in particular Andy Flower, Allan Donald for a while and then Ottis Gibson - together with a bank of experienced players such as Michael Vaughan.  "I was keen to get my own support staff because it is difficult to talk of coaches if you have not coached with them. Matthew Maynard, for example, was Duncan's batting coach but his style of coaching I didn't really know. I'd seen a little at the Academy, knew he was a good player, and the lads spoke well of him, but it was a good time to bring in a change.  "Andy I'd known from working at the Academy, I liked his approach, he had a good knowledge of the circuit, which I hadn't, a fine Test record, and in fact made the most of his ability, so that fitted. Allan's involvement was as a really senior international player with a strong work ethic and more of a mentoring role. He did some really good work and now Ottis has come in and shown his qualities too. So for me it all fits." So far, so good, in Moores' estimation. There have been some highs during the past year - a comprehensive Test win over West Indies to kick-start his tenure, the recovery in New Zealand and one-day series wins against India at home and Sri Lanka away. This has to be balanced against the Test defeat by India, that in Sri Lanka, and the level to which they sank in New Zealand before bobbing up again.  Given that he felt 18 months would be needed to be able to assess progress, Moores is content with the team' development. The batting, he concedes, needs more consistency and initially the bowling suffered from a lack of experience, now offset by the emergence of Ryan Sidebottom and Stuart Broad and the possible resurgence of Andrew Flintoff. Strides have been made in the one-day game.  "We have started to grow as a team," he feels, "but we have a lot of work to do yet. We have a lot of good players, so we are into a period now where we can start to play the sort of cricket which we want to play rather than need to, which should be more exciting. I know how they operate now and they know how I do things, which is to try and create the environment that enables them to play as they would like and to be able to take responsibility for that. There is a bit more shape to the team and a healthy competition for places. By the end of this summer we will have a much better idea of exactly the stage we are at." These are turbulent times for international cricket, though. The meteoric rise of the Indian Premier League and its unofficial rival have placed a different slant on player loyalty, with boards in danger of getting trampled in the rush for the cash by players, many of whom had scarcely given Twenty20 house room when it was first introduced to touring schedules.  Dimitri Mascarenhas is the lone England representative in the IPL but all that might change a year hence and with that comes the danger that Moores, as England coach, could have his authority challenged during that period when a rejigging of the winter schedule has created the chance for pre-Ashes rest. As it stands, according to the ECB chairman, Giles Clarke, Moores will have the power to say whether or not a player can sign for an IPL franchise, so there is potential for conflict there; potential too in the prospect that high-profile players could opt to reject a central contract and, in effect, become freelances, out of the control of Moores. This is a hypothetical situation that seems not to bother him.  "At the moment, listening to the talk within the squad, there is a huge passion for playing for England," he says. "They don't want to jeopardise their England careers. Now of course they have responsibilities to their families and, if there is a chance for them to play in the IPL, and I consider it appropriate not just financially or against the need for rest, but in terms of developing skills in a format we need to improve, then we would take it. As a concept we have to accept they are going to want to play. But is it right for them? They are not going to want to jeopardise the massive summer of international cricket that follows. "As far as central contracts are concerned, at the moment all I can say is that they have been sensible so far. What we have done with all players' schedules is assess individuals. We need to see what is right for each player. If a player doesn't want a central contract, then he doesn't but I haven't seen that yet. Instead they want to monitor things because they are keen to secure themselves financially, which is sensible, but want to play for their country. But the landscape is changing fast. I think they have to be sensible. "The players know they play a lot and have to listen to their bodies. Tiredness is part mental and part physical and we have to strike a balance: is it right for one and not another, who goes and who doesn't. It is not a call we have to make at the moment but neither is it something that we are going to ignore, because we can't." Peter Moores was speaking at an event promoting the Sky Sports ECB Coach Education Programme, which trained over 5,500 cricket coaches in its first year Peter Moores 2007-2008 Tests P W D T L Win% 13 5 5 0 3 38 ODIs P W NR T L Win% 20 9 0 1 10 45 Test form has been patchy with series defeats by India at home and Sri Lanka away but one-day series victories against the same opposition have impressed. Duncan Fletcher 1999-2000 Tests P W D T L Win% 12 5 4 0 3 42 ODIs P W NR T L Win% 16 9 1 0 6 56 A first Test series victory over West Indies in 31 years made up for a scratchy series win over Zimbabwe and defeat in South Africa. Beat Zimbabwe in NatWest Series final. David Lloyd 1996-1997 Tests P W D T L Win% 11 3 6 0 2 27 ODIs P W NR T L Win% 14 6 1 1 6 43 Lloyd's first year is a mixed bag with a drawn Test series in Zimbabwe providing the most memorable moment - "we flippin' murdered them," the coach claims.  Ray Illingworth 1995-1996 Tests P W D T L Win%  11 2 6 0 3 18 ODIs P W NR T L Win%  16 5 0 0 11 31 Drew a six-Test home series with West Indies 2-2 but lost a five-Test series in South Africa 1-0. One-day record dominated by 1996 World Cup in Pakistan and quarter-final defeat by eventual champions Sri Lanka. 