 England will begin their 2013 ICC Champions Trophy campaign against their traditional rivals Australia. The tournament, hosted by England and the last ICC Trophy to be staged by anyone, will begin with a match between India and South Africa on 6 June. The fixtures were announced by the England and Wales Cricket Board on Tuesday. Group A features Australia, England, New Zealand and Sri Lanka while India, Pakistan, South Africa and West Indies will compete in Group B. Matches will be held at Edgbaston, Cardiff and The Oval. The three grounds will each host four matches in the group stages, with semi-finals at The Oval on 19 June and Cardiff on 20 June, and the final at Edgbaston on 23 June. India and Pakistan meet on 15 June in Birmingham, where Australia face New Zealand three days earlier. The tournament director Steve Elworthy said: "This will be a terrific opportunity for fans to see the world's very best one-day sides over the space of less than three weeks and the schedule has thrown up a host of exciting head-to-head contests. "The format means every match counts and all eight teams will feel that they are capable of winning the tournament in a competition which is set to be one of the highlights of the 2013 international calendar." Glamorgan's chairman Barry O'Brien said: "The opportunity to stage ICC Champions Trophy fixtures in Cardiff is an exciting one. To mark our 125th anniversary as a venue to the best cricketers from around the globe is a real accolade for us." ICC Champions Trophy 2013 fixtures Group A England v Australia, 8 June, Edgbaston Sri Lanka v New Zealand, 9 June, Cardiff Australia v New Zealand, 12 June, Edgbaston England v Sri Lanka, 13 June, The Oval England v New Zealand, 16 June, Cardiff Sri Lanka v Australia, 17 June, The Oval Group B India v South Africa, 6 June, Cardiff West Indies v Pakistan, 7 June, The Oval Pakistan v South Africa, 10 June, Edgbaston India v West Indies, 11 June, The Oval West Indies v South Africa, 14 June, Cardiff India v Pakistan, 15 June, Edgbaston Semi-finals Group A winner v Group B runner-up, 19 June, The Oval Group B winner v Group A runner-up, 20 June, Cardiff Final 23 June, Edgbaston 