 The subplots mattered more than the outcome of England’s first Test warmup, and chief among them is the battle to join Alastair Cook at the top of the order, with Ben Duckett and Haseeb Hameed engaged in what the assistant coach, Paul Farbrace, described as a “shootout”. By retiring with a punchy 59 against the BCB XI, Duckett drew first blood. Duckett is better than just a wild thrasher, and there is more to Hameed’s game than stout blocking, but both lived up to their reputations. As they shared a stand of 75, when Duckett, who turns 22 on Monday, brought up a 59-ball half-century, Hameed had five; Duckett’s strike-rate was 65 runs per 100 balls higher than Hameed, who took 15 deliveries to get off the mark and 44 to hit a boundary. Having made two fifties in the ODI series win, Duckett pulled, cut and cover-drove his way excellently, while Hameed – who had left his first ball discerningly outside off, a sign of things to come – was eventually caught behind off a leg-break from Sabbir Rahman that turned and bounced. His 16 had lasted 100 minutes, and did not lack composure, and he has a further two-day warmup to stake his claim. He bats a little like the Joe Root of 2012, and it was encouraging to see them deep in conversation at Friday’s training session. There remains a chance both play in Thursday’s first Test, with Hameed partnering Cook – who will become England’s most-capped Test cricketer, with 134 – and Duckett slotting into the middle order. With that in mind, Gary Ballance will have been relieved to survive for a dogged 27; Jos Buttler, so destructive in the ODI series, will have a chance over the next two days. The less satisfactory option would be that Cook fails to make it back from the birth of his second child, meaning Root, who looked miffed to be adjudged lbw for two and headed straight into the nets, would captain. Moeen Ali is set to bat No5, followed by Ben Stokes, then the wicketkeeper, Jonny Bairstow. While Stuart Broad described Hameed as having “a really nice calm aura about him”, he heaped praise on Duckett: “He’s a hugely impressive player. He scores in slightly different areas, he’s quite awkward to bowl to and he sticks to his gameplan. You could see by the way he was striking the ball, to be hitting fours on this outfield was a good effort.” The game took place at the MA Aziz Stadium, which is so close to the team hotel that the armed convoy was taken on foot, not by bus. The tourists arrived to a decent pitch but an outfield that, having been too squelchy for play on Friday, looked more fit for growing vegetables than hosting international cricketers. The format - 45 overs per side, with no result - was a glorified net; having lost three wickets to a team containing seven internationals, England laboured for 43.3 overs, then two came in three balls. England learned less, apart from the ferocity of the heat, when it was their turn to bowl. Broad and Steven Finn, bowling their first spells of the tour, were too driveable but Jake Ball was tight later on. None of the four spinners were expensive or terribly threatening, although two catches were dropped off Zafar Ansari. The openers, Shahriar Nafees and Soumya Sarkar, two of the four with Test caps, retired out, while Sabbhir got after Moeen. Eventually, Gareth Batty’s toil rewarded with Sabbir trapped lbw and Mosaddek Hossain, who turned to Hameed, whose presence at short leg was perhaps instructive for Thursday’s selection. The game ended then, and England seemed happy with the mileage in their legs. Highlights of the Test series, it seems, will be broadcast on free-to-air television, with ITV4 understood to be running a show in the primetime 6-7pm each day. 