 Hashim Amla struck a career-best 159 as South Africa thrashed Ireland by 201 runs in their World Cup Pool B match in Canberra but the defeated captain, William Porterfield, insisted there was no panic. South Africa amassed 411 for four from their 50 overs thanks to the free-flowing scoring of the opening batsman Amla and Faf du Plessis, who scored 109, with David Miller and Rilee Rossouw adding 110 quick runs at the end of the innings. Ireland were all out for 210 but did put up some resistance after being reduced to 48 for five in the 11th over. The win consolidated South Africa’s position in second place in Pool B behind the leaders India and made them the first team to post consecutive 400s and the second to register consecutive 200-run wins. Ireland got off to a fine start when Quinton de Kock edged behind to Gary Wilson from the bowling of John Mooney in the third over to leave South Africa 12 for one. Ed Joyce then dropped Amla when he was on 10, which proved a costly mistake as the South Africa batsman went on to make his record score from 128 balls. Du Plessis was equally free-scoring at the other end but was also given a life with the score on 60 for one when he edged behind and narrowly missed the hands of slip, instead earning four runs. The pair worked well in tandem and punished Ireland’s bowlers, Du Plessis bringing up 150 for South Africa with a huge six in the 24th over as he and Amla plundered runs.Amla reached his century from 100 balls, narrowly before Du Plessis, whose hundred came up after 103 deliveries. By this point South Africa were cruising and went into the drinks break at 228 for one after 37 overs. The partnership was finally broken in the 39th over when Du Plessis swung and missed at a Kevin O’Brien delivery, with the ball hitting his middle stump. Joyce made some amends for his earlier drop by catching Amla, with AB de Villiers departing shortly afterwards for 24 to leave South Africa on 301 for four with just over eight overs remaining. Millar and Rossouw picked up where Amla and Du Plessis had left off with some free hitting, Millar blasting 46 from 23 balls and Rossouw plundering 61 from 30 balls, including six boundaries and four maximums. Porterfield said: “I don’t think it’s make or break. I think every game we’ve gone into it looking for those two points. We did it against West Indies, UAE and against Zimbabwe [next] it’s not going to be any different. If we pick up two points then we’re on six. We’re going to keep doing the good things we’re doing well.” It left Ireland with an imposing target of 412 to win the match and they stuttered to 21 for three after Paul Stirling (nine), William Porterfield (12) and Joyce (nought) were all dismissed by the fifth over. Joyce was caught at first slip by Amla at the first attempt, somewhat rubbing more salt into the wound after the Irishman’s earlier dropped catch. Amla also snapped up Niall O’Brien at first slip for 14 thanks to an impressive catch, after his view of the ball was impeded by the wicketkeeper De Kock diving in front of him. Wilson’s departure for a duck after he was caught on the crease by Kyle Abbott (four for 21) left Ireland rocking at 48 for five but they rallied to 129 before the loss of their next wicket, Andy Balbirnie for 58. Kevin O’Brien (48) kept Ireland’s innings ticking over but victory was never a possibility, with Max Sorensen (22) and George Dockrell (25) unable to change the course of the match. 