 England's cricket chiefs believe the team's crushing Ashes victory in Australia will deliver much more than a boost to national pride and widespread imitations of the players' celebratory "sprinkler dance". The game's governing body is banking on the excitement generated by the 3-1 series win to deliver a multimillion-pound boost to sponsorship revenues, boost ticket sales, encourage more people to play the game, and even help re-establish the popularity of Test cricket. This week, the England and Wales Cricket Board will try to capitalise on the first Ashes victory in Australia for 24 years by auctioning the rights to sponsor home Test matches from 2012. It is talking to a number of potential replacements for the current sponsor, npower, in the hope of netting up to £5m, 25% more than the previous deal. Steve Elworthy, the ECB's director of marketing and communications, said: "The Ashes gives you narrative and helps you tell the story. Looking at the summer, we're playing the fourth ranked country in the world in Sri Lanka… and we're playing the number one team in India. Attendances have been good in Australia and the key for us is to keep the momentum going from a Test perspective. We're going to be using the players coming home to keep that story going." This week the ECB will unveil the first in a series of deals, offering a free child ticket for each full-price one at selected Test and one-day matches this summer. ECB commercial director John Perera said: "Success breeds interest and there's no doubt that's true in sport – look at the Rugby World Cup in 2003 or the Ashes in 2005. Off the back of this we'll see a huge increase in the interest level in cricket. That goes for commercial partners, but also people playing cricket and people wanting to watch." Sports marketing experts said yesterday that the manner of England's victory could also increase the off-field earnings of the players by at least a third, with even bigger rewards for captain Andrew Strauss and leading lights such as player of the series Alastair Cook and fast bowler Jimmy Anderson. Commercially, the ECB hopes cricket will benefit by comparison with England's underperforming football team. The Football Association will unveil Vauxhall as England's new sponsor this week in a deal worth about £5m. "I'm not having a whack at the FA – that's not our style – but we've delivered at the top level as a major national sport and we should get our just rewards in the commercial marketplace," said Perera. "The biggest beneficiary of England retaining the Ashes is Test cricket, which is currently fighting off the global and commercial success of the Twenty20 format," said Rupert Pratt, managing director of the PR consultancy Generate Sponsorship. "But sponsorship is a long-term game and England need to continue their current form." Cricket chiefs are also hopeful that Ashes hysteria will also help dispel any lingering disenchantment among fans or sponsors caused by the match-fixing saga that scarred Pakistan's tour of England last summer. Although the International Cricket Council tribunal hearing the case of the three Pakistan players accused of "spot-fixing" is continuing, fears that the scandal would cause fans to turn away from the sport have dissipated. All the grounds hosting this summer's matches with Sri Lanka and India are reporting strong ticket sales and the ECB is using the database generated by interest in its online Ashes coverage to market them to new fans. A proposed new playoff series between the top Test-playing teams in the world, due to begin in 2013, should give further impetus. The Ashes win will also reignite the debate about the paucity of coverage for English cricket on terrestrial television. Although highlights of the series on ITV4 generated peak audiences of more than 1m, the conditions attached to the rights deal between Cricket Australia and live broadcaster Sky meant they were shown late at night, shortly before the next day's play was about to begin. But the ECB – which has defended its strategy of selling its own rights to the highest pay-TV bidder by pointing to on-field success and increased grassroots investment – said that the internet had enabled fans to feel part of the Ashes even if they were unable to watch it on television. Graeme Swann's video diaries, which popularised the "sprinkler dance" that became synonymous with the team's victory celebrations, drew more than a million views, and game highlights were shown on the ECB website. Many of the squad also took to the social messaging service Twitter with gusto, providing a running commentary on the off-field activities of the team. 