 The objections by the Board of Control for Cricket in India to the universal adoption of the decision review system are twofold: firstly the general principle of using technology and secondly the accuracy of the equipment in any case. To a degree they must be contingent, and it has been the task of the International Cricket Council, which decides on the protocols for international cricket, to attempt to get all the equipment available tested independently and hopefully verified and in that way convince the BCCI, and indeed sceptics everywhere, of the value that technology can bring to the game without taking it over. To this end, for some time now, the Massachusetts Institute of Science and Technology (MIT), the leading body for such research, has been working on precisely that, with the intention of testing Hawk-Eye and Virtual Eye, the two pieces of tracking technology used around the world, as well as Snicko and HotSpot, the devices used to detect edges and to an extent differentiate between types of noise. As a result of this, Ultra Edge, an advanced piece of equipment that can meet these requirements to a very high level of accuracy has been approved by the ICC, following stringent testing at Loughborough on specially constructed apparatus, and can be used forthwith. With ball tracking, it will take a while longer yet: MIT are in the process of building their own testing equipment, hope to begin the testing process in the new year and be in a position to offer a verdict to the ICC cricket committee at their May meeting with a recommendation to follow from that body. For now, the debate rumbles on, not just about the technology itself, but who should be responsible for it and who should pay for it. The present arrangement is straightforward: the ICC lends its approval for use, as is now the case with Ultra Edge, but it is then down to the host broadcaster to decide how much of the equipment they wish to budget for. So for England’s current series Ten Sports have decided that they do not wish to pay for either HotSpot or Snicko, leaving an audio feed and two-dimensional television pictures as the only means of attempting to verify edges. It meant that twice during the first Test, the third umpire Sundaram Ravi had to make difficult adjudications, overturning a not out decision against Misbah-ul-Haq in the first Pakistan innings, and in the second, allowing Mohammad Hafeez to survive a review. Of course, this leads to an inconsistent game worldwide, where some series have all the best technology available and some, as with England’s current series, do not. ICC acknowledges that this is unsatisfactory, and will almost certainly opt to fund the installation of requisite technology for all matches in future, but not until the best equipment has been established and verified, and, presumably, until India come on board. “Ideally we want to get to the stage of consistent application,” said the ICC chief executive, Dave Richardson, on Monday. He is not, though, unduly optimistic that India will not continue to dig heels in. If MIT does vouch for the accuracy of ball-tracking, however, there is likely to be an adjustment to the protocols involved in its application, in particular the parameters in which the “umpire’s call” operates. Currently – a personal opinion – it is much too generous to the umpire, and allows some ridiculously anomalous lbw decisions according to whether the original decision was out or not out. According to the ICC general manager of cricket, Geoff Allardice, the accuracy of umpiring decisions has increased significantly over the past couple of years (although this in no small part must be measured using equipment whose own accuracy they are currently testing). When it comes to lbws, they are particularly good on line, against height which needs more work. There is a common belief that some way has to be found to maintain some umpiring judgment, hence the “umpire’s call” element. But if the tracking technology is found to be as accurate as the manufacturers claim (Hawk-Eye believes it to be accurate to within a millimetre from around seven metres out) then there is little reason not to narrow the parameters and put the umpires under a little more scrutiny. It will certainly be instructive to see how the decision accuracy statistics hold up then. Meanwhile, just when things appeared to be coming together, a spanner has been thrown in the works by Ian Taylor, the head of Animation Research, the New Zealand-based company that supplies Virtual Eye tracking technology to the Australian cricket broadcaster, Channel 9. In just over a month’s time, in Adelaide, Australia will play New Zealand in the inaugural day/night Test match, in which a pink ball will be used. According to Taylor, the algorithms used to track the red or white ball may not work with pink. As no one asked them at the outset, just assuming it would work, Animation Research would have only a few days in Adelaide to test the equipment and the match might be forced to proceed without it. “I guess we just fell through the cracks where everyone just expected, well, we’re going to have a pink ball day-night Test and the stuff will work,” Taylor said. “Well it doesn’t. Under perfect conditions the pink ball tracks really well. As soon as it starts to wear it starts to come unstuck because the ball’s no longer red nor pink nor white.” So presumably that will be something further for MIT to investigate and more grist to the BCCI mill. 