 Preamble Morning all. Your top team today: Andy Wilson is at Nottinghamshire v Somerset, David Hopps will be watching Yorkshire v Worcestershire and Richard Rae is keeping an eye on Leicestershire v Essex. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Video highlights are here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Andy Bull, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield. 11.03am: 1Far be it from me to complain about another morning at Trent Bridge, writes Andy Wilson, where we've got the added attraction of watching Steve Kirby resume his fascinating battle with the exciting young talent of Alex Hales. But for an hour or so this morning, the place to be is the Oval, where Rob Key will continue his heroic effort to lead Kent to a famous victory against Surrey. Key, who has been strongly linked with the brown hats on several occasions in the past, will resume on 144 out of a total of 270 for eight, with another 52 needed and only Robbie Joseph and Ashley Shaw for company. The Surrey attack includes one current England bowler in Chris Tremlett and another tipped for future stardom in Stuart Meaker, but neither of them have managed a wicket in Kent's second innings. Instead seven of the eight to fall have been taken by Yorkshiremen - the veteran off-spinner Gareth Batty has taken three, and the Leeds-born seamer Tim Linley has four. We'll try to keep you posted. 11.06am: Rather depressingly, Essex have chosen to bat on at Grace Road, writes Richard Rae. In a match they really need to win, they begin the day on 306-4, a lead of 354. A full day's play is 96 overs. The wicket is playing reasonably well.  In my humble opinion they would have been better served declaring overnight and not completely closing Leicestershire out of the game, to keep their opponents thinking it's not just about saving the game, but there you are. Owais Shah is 84 not out – surely it's nothing to do with giving him the chance to get his first century for the county.  Of course, Essex might bowl Leicestershire out by tea time. If, on the other hand, they close on, say 240-8 – well, Paul Grayson and James Foster might have a few questions to answer. On a lighter note, Leicestershire's injured captain Matthew Hoggard was out in the middle with a baseball glove on one hand before play, helping his bowlers. Given his right arm is still in a pot, not entirely sure it was the wisest move. 12.23pm: Day 3 at Scarborough and Trent Bridge and welcome to the big first Test shoot-out, writes David Hopps. It's Broad v Bresnan for the vacant fast bowling spot at Lord's. Well, it might be Finn as well, but he is probably pushing a supermarket trolley, owing to the vagaries of the county cricket fixture list, so it is hard for him to make much of an impression. Did I say "vagaries"? Sorry, I must have meant "stupidity." For England to build up to an important Test series against India with a wealth of Twenty20 matches is, how shall we put it, slightly careless. The big Broad v Bresnan shoot-out has not exactly taken hold. Big Championship Shoot-Out: Not Many Dead. The championship does not readily roll over and provide the headline writers with the stories they desire, which is probably why these days it is routinely ignored. Bresnan knocked over the Worcestershire tail in the first innings to finish with a four-fer; Broad knocked over the Somerset tail to finish with a five-fer. Neither analysis meant much in the great scheme of things, although as Mr Wilson pointed out the Barney McGrew, Cuthbert and Grubbs of the Somerset and Worcestershire lower orders were obviously a bit overawed by it all. Broad is biding his time in the warmth of the Trent Bridge dressing room, waiting to bat, and presumably will bowl later, at which point Mr Wilson will be agog. On a grouchy morning at North Marine Road, Bresnan has hammered out a length, but without success as Worcestershire's fifth-wicket pair have resisted with resolve. It has taken Ajmal Shahzad to remove James Cameron at slip after an hour's play, leaving Worcestershire 112-5, still 87 behind. James Whitaker is the England selector on duty and has been studying Bresnan's bowling spells in minute details. He went outside when it was sunny to study his length from side on and today, as the temperature plummets, he has remained inside to study his line. Sensible planning. Whitaker is doing his admin and has just looked up from a Bresnan over to ask "How do you spell 'unnecessarily'?" The question therefore, is what sentence about Bresnan might the England selector have been writing? Keep it as funny as you like. 1.11pm: For those who haven't seen below the line, writes Andy Wilson, Legside Lizzy is at the Oval and relates that Rob Key was bowled around his legs for 162 by Zafar Ansari, Surrey's left-arm spinner, with 25 runs still required. So now it's down to nos 10 and 11, Robbie Joseph and Ashley Shaw. Or at least it was. Shaw's now fallen to Gareth Batty, and Key's brave battle was in vain. Surrey can still dream of promotion, whereas Kent remain in danger of the wooden spoon. Here at Trent Bridge, Somerset have bowled well with the second new ball without any luck, always entertaining when Steve Kirby's involved. Alex Hales has beaten his previous career best of 136, and Chris Read has just pulled Adam Dibble for six over mid wicket. The man from the Daily Telegraph made a joke about dibbly-dobblers. With messrs Franks, Broad, Adams and Fletcher still to come, Notts are looking good for a first innings lead. ends... 1.13pm: The writing is very much on the Grace Road wall, writes Richard Rae. Chasing a notional target of 393, Leicestershire are now 56-4. Following the early dismissals of Will Jefferson and Greg Smith, we had a stand of sorts between James Taylor and Matt Boyce, who added 37 for the third wicket before Ravi Bopara, who loves a good bowl, dismissed Taylor - arguably one of his rivals for an England batting slot - leg before. Taylor shuffled across and played across the line at a straight one, and was walking before the decision. It's a weakness - he's been out this way several times this season. Tymal Mills then got Boyce leg before, a first championship wicket for the Yorkshire-born left-arm seamer. Mills is in the middle of sports journalism degree, apparently. Someone better tell him which career currently offers the better prospects. A scrap metal van has just driven down Milligan Road, attracting plenty of suggestions from disgruntled Leicestershire supporters. 1.29pm: It is the Scarborough Horse Fair on Friday and hundreds of Travellers have begun to descend on the outskirts of the town in recent days with grizzled horses pulling a variety of contraptions, writes David Hopps. Some residents have little time for this great tradition and regularly petition the Home office for the abolition of the horse fair, which actually takes place in nearby Seamer, on the grounds that it is illegal and always has been. The Fair's Royal Charter was granted in 1382 by Richard II and it has gradually become a meeting spot for Travellers from all over the country. Not too many Travellers, as far as can be discerned, have popped into North Marine Road to watch the cricket, where Worcestershire are 168-6 for six at lunch, within 33 runs of making Yorkshire bat again. It was a pedestrian morning session, with Daryl Mitchell stuck on 46 for more than an hour. He reached 50 with some relief by crashing Pyrah to the cover boundary, but soon after froze on a delivery that perhaps kept a little low and bowled him through the gate. The pitch is flat and short of pace and an uncomfortably cool day has left Yorkshire's supporters fearing that victory it still not entirely certain. It will look a lot different the minute that they dismiss Gareth Andrew.  The last throes of the morning session have been left with Anthony McGrath, who has bowled a couple of overs of rotund medium-pace outswingers to general bemusement. For Worcestershire, it must have felt like batting against Kippax 2nds. McGrath, it has to be said, has piled on the poundage. Imagine the time you saw him and add another 10kgs.McGrath has had a poor season, with 135 runs in ten championship knocks, but he has been preferred to Joe Sayers at Scarborough after scoring a big 2nd team hundred. One senses that there will not be too many more Festivals left for him. Whatever some of the residents of Scarborough may think, he is unlikely to survive as long as the Horse Fair. 2.28pm: Nottinghamshire have been bowled out for 492, with a lead of 106, after a highly entertaining post-lunch session at Trent Bridge, writes Andy Wilson. It would be best described as the misadventures of Steven Paul Kirby, who played his pantomime's villain role to perfection, to the huge amusement of a throaty home crowd. The action started with Alex Hales sweeping Murali Kartik for his second six. But the Indian spinner could and should have taken his revenge, having a loud lbw appeal turned down before Craig Kieswetter missed a stumping chance. Kieswetter made amends by taking a terrific catch to dismiss Stuart Broad after he had stroked 21 from 17 balls with three well-timed boundaries. Then Kirby replaced Kartik from the Pavilion end and the fun really started. Only Kirby could appeal loudly for a catch to extra cover when the fielder himself, James Hildreth, didn't say a word, other than to confirm that the ball hadn't carried. But Kirby's irritation was understandable as it was far from the first time he had beaten Hales with no reward. Things were to get a good deal worse, as in the same over Andre Adams hooked him for six - and then launched him for a couple more after Hales had been dismissed, caught behind off Willoughby, 16 short of a double century. Adams ended with 33 from 15 balls, Notts with their highest total of the season, and now Somerset are battling to save the game. It's Broad to Trescothick again, under grey East Midlands skies. Fascinating. 3.08pm: There is an unspoken rule to winning a cricket match at Scarborough, writes David Hopps. If Yorkshire do not follow this rule then barracking is assured. They are doing their best to honour the agreement, but it is becoming a close-run thing. Grumbling could soon begin. The only time Yorkshire can win a match at Scarborough and expect hearty congratulations to descend upon them is between 4.15 and 4.45pm. Finish earlier and many spectators have to wander aimlessly around town, without much to do, before they can be sure of a friendly greeting back at the Guest House. Finish after 4.45pm and the same spectators will have had to depart early, the result unknown, to ensure that they are changed in time for dinner, gongs sounded at 5.30pm. At 2.55pm, Worcestershire are 254-8, a lead of 55, and runs are coming at slightly more than a run a minute. Tim Bresnan has been withdrawn from the attack, with figures of 0 for 57 from 22 overs, not much to force the selectors' hand when they consider the squad for Lord's. Were Yorkshire to dismiss Worcestershire at precisely 3.00pm, the lead would be around 60. Allowing for 20 minutes for tea that would leave them between 15 and 22 overs to knock off the runs. They may have timed it perfectly. But the natives are just beginning to get restless. It is time to strike now, or portions of last night's spotted dick may be thrown onto the outfield in protest. 3.40pm: It's all over at Grace Road, where Essex have thrashed Leicestershire by 254 runs, writes Richard Rae. We should have known better than to speculate that Essex should have declared overnight to give themselves more time to bowl their opponents out. This, after all, is a side bowled out for just 48 in their previous championship match. And true to form, they didn't do that much better this time out, finishing on 139-9 (Harry Gurney, who tweaked a hamstring yesterday, didn't bother to bat). More to follow after I've trotted over to the pavilion to hear what the protagonists have to say. Not much they can say in Leicestershire's case.. 3.50pm: The statisticians have been in overdrive this afternoon, both below the line and here in the Trent Bridge press box writes Andy Wilson, who has made no useful contribution whatsoever, and has instead been eating a scone . After biffing three sixes in his 15-ball 33, all of them off Steve Kirby, it turns out that Andre Adams has now hit no fewer than 27 in the Championship this summer. That represents 41.2% of his total runs scored, and is only one fewer than the rest of his Notts team-mates have managed between them. It also makes him comfortably the leading six-hitter in the land. Marcus Trescothick is his closest challenger in the First Division, with 15. He hasn't added to that tally today, but that doesn't matter. The Somerset captain has batted beautifully to reach an unbeaten 57, cuffing Stuart Broad for four boundaries behind square on the off-side in his first two overs. Broad resorted to posting a deep backward point, and to be fair he responded with a couple of crackers that nipped back over Trescothick's stumps before taking a break with uninspiring figures of 4-0-30-0. Somerset are 83-1, now only 23 behind, with Adams ending a promising innings by Arul Suppiah by surprising him with a short ball, Chris Read taking yet another good catch down the leg-side. 5.30pm: Some reaction from Essex's comprehensive dismantling of Leicestershire for you, writes Richard Rae... Essex Head Coach Paul Grayson: "At the start of the day we thought we possibly needed a few more runs as a comfort blanket, so we could keep the close catchers in all day and with our spinners, we could have bowled more than the minimum number of overs in the day anyway. But we took early wickets, the pitch started to deteriorate, and in the end we rolled them over. It was a very good, very comprehensive performance by us, by which I mean individuals played well but we also performed as a team.  "James Foster's century in our first innings was very important. he's playing really well, he's in a good place with the bat. And we're delighted with and excited by both Tom Craddock and Tymal Mills. With six games to go we have established a nice momentum and the side has a good balance, with real variation in the bowling attack. We're in Southend next, against Leicestershire again. It's a result wicket, and we're happy with that." Tom Craddock: "I'd love to stay with Essex, it's a good club, a strong club. I did have one sort of trial with Yorkshire when I was 16, and I've taken a few wickets in the Huddersfield league, but Essex have given me a chance, and I'm doing my best to take it. I pride myself on my control - I look to get into my spell first, without giving it too much of a rip, but spin it more and more as I go on. I was very happy with the slider that got Henderson. It's my birthday today, and a pretty good one." [It should get even better - Paul Grayson said the club intends to talk to him directly about signing a full contract. He's currently on a two month trial].  Leicestershire head coach Phil Whitticase: "They came hard at us, and had a bit of the rub of the green, but you earn the luck you have. We seem to have two different changing rooms when it comes to T20 and championship cricket. We just haven't found our way in championship cricket this season, and it's difficult to put your finger on the reason why. Last year we won seven championship games and expected to win every time we went out there. At the moment however there's a lack of confidence. We've talked about it, constructively, and we're working very hard to put it right." 