 So then, England have set a well below par total of 144-7. The average Twenty20 innings at Bristol is 168, so that shows you how poor that total was. The spell of three wickets for one run (Bell, Pietersen and Strauss) really broke the back of England's innings, but positives included the batting of Yardy and Dalrymple, and the barnstorming knock by Trescothick. Pakistan are packed with batting talent what with Abdur Razzaq coming in at no8, so should go on to become the second team to win a Twenty20 International batting second. What a difference their first choice bowling attack has made to these two sides. On those ball-tampering photos Charles Downes writes: "Thank you Maggie!! I thought I was turning in to a loon, seeing sinister goings on like Gene Hackman in Enemy of the State. Poirot didn't know his arse from his elbow... now Miss Marple, she'll be able to find the truth!". 1st over: Pakistan 9-0 (Malik 7 Hafeez 2)  Of course, it is Darren Gough who takes the new ball. Now, Darren has basically talked his way back into this England team. The man produces more hot air than wickets these days, and talk about his form this season being greatly improved is a myth (he is 45th in the first-class rankings, and has 14 wickets at 21 this season) but, he is also, or was once, one of England's great bowlers. And so it goes: his first ball is a dot, his second flies off the edge and through the gap between 'keeper and slip for four. Read should have jumped for the catch, but didn't: shades of Edgbaston there, and these two (Trescothick and Read) really need to improve their communication. 2nd over: Pakistan 11-0 (Malik 9 Hafeez 2)  And on comes Broad, for the first of many overs he will no doubt bowl for England in his career. His first ball is wide, and Malik plays and misses. For such a baby-faced youth, Broad carries follows-through down the wicket and gives Malik a mean stare. He has been the most economical bowler inTwenty20 this year, so he knows what he is doing in this format. Steep bounce and a tight line mean he gives up just two runs from his first over. 3rd over: Pakistan 19-0 (Malik 12 Hafeez 7)  Gough draws two air shots from Hafeez, but then begins to leak runs like a man who has eaten a plate of bad prawns. At the risk of irking those who aren't in my family, I have to send a hello to the many Bulls gathered at the family reunion which I've missed to be here. What sacrifies I make for the obo. WICKET!!! Malik 16 lbw Broad WICKET!!! Khan 0 c Read b Broad: 4th over: Pakistan 23-2 (Hafeez 7 Afridi 0)  Broad strikes! What a debut! So incredible it justifies my use of exclamation marks. And I loathe exclamation marks. Two wickets in two balls: Malik falls to an off-cutter that raps him infront on the back foot. Khan goes first ball, strangled down the leg side and caught by Read. Afridi comes in and strikes the hat-trick ball high into the air where it just eludes mid-on. Broad was just yards short from a hat-trick on debut. David Horn asks of the missed catch: "Is it really a case of Trescothick and Read needing to improve their communication? Surely there isn't time for a gentlemanly exchange of 'Oh, that looks like mine old chap' - 'actually, it's closer to me, I'll go for it'.". Fair point David, but the communication could happen before the match as well, as in, Read could say, if it is between you and I, I will go for it regardless. It just looks so stupid when nobody moves for a catch. Not that it matters now. 5th over: Pakistan 46-2 (Hafeez 14 Afridi 14)  Broad is still busy blushing from the excitement of it all, and who can blame him. Mahmoos comes into the attack and, incredibly, Hafeez sweeps his 85mph ball around the corner through leg slip's hands for four. "Boom boom" Afridi as he is known in Karachi (if not the seamier streets of Soho) plays three incredible shots: wuppin' fours to all parts. He has 14 off of 4 balls and Mahmood's first over has gone for 21 runs. Ouch. 6th over: Pakistan 66-2 (Hafeez 19 Afridi 28)  Hafeez hits a four down the ground, but really, I have to say more about Afridi. His shots would make KP blush: not one has been orthodox, not one has hit the middle of the bat. In this over he slog sweeps a four froma yard outside off stump and then hits a length ball out of the ground for six. Yes, out of the ground. He has phenomenal power, incredible hand-eye co-ordination and amazing hand speed. There can only have been the smallest number of players in the history of the game who could bat like him. In this over he has destroyed Broad's figures. WICKET!!! Afridi 28 c Yardy b Dalrymple 7th over: Pakistan 69-3 (Hafeez 21 Yousuf 0)  Jamie Dalrymple has come on, poor soul, as England seek to take the pace off the ball. Hafeez takes a single and that man is on strike. Of course, after my rhapsodic waxing in the last over Afridi strikes a huge, towering shot to mid-wicket: Micahel Yardy then takes one of the best catches I've ever seen on a cricket pitch, diving backwards to catch teh ball behind and above his head before landing flat on his back. That was the most breathless period of cricket imaginable, please, if you can, watch the highlights: Afridi has just made the most startling 28 runs possible, and that catch was no less incredible. 8th over: Pakistan 77-3 (Hafeez 28 Yousuf 1)  England have to take wickets, so Strauss has kept his slip in place. Pakistan need 68 to win from 73 balls, which is a doddle by Twenty20 standards. Hafeez pulls a lovely four through mid-wicket. Broad first England spell has come to an end, and, apart from his brief experience against Afridi, a fine one it was too. 9th over: Pakistan 84-3 (Hafeez 29 Yousuf 5)  Amongst all this action, Izzie Latham chips in with this on teh 'keeping debate: "It's not a matter of communication, Read just needs to go for it. He has a terrible habit of not bothering with anything he thinks might make him look stupid. I'd rather have a 'keeper who goes for everything and sometimes misses, than one that hasn't got the balls to do so. " That is a fine and interesting point: I'd never looked at Read like that, but not knowing the man is it really fair comment? 10th over: Pakistan 93-3 (Hafeez 29 Yousuf 15)  Michael Yardy takes the bowl for his first England bowl. His quickish, flat left-arm spin quickly disappears over long-on for six. 11th over: Pakistan 99-3 (Hafeez 30 Yousuf 20)  Sajid Mahmood returns after that savage battering at the hands of Afridi. Email correspondence has been reduced to missive from a charity who seem concerned for my soul as they keep sending prayers to my inbox. Pray instead for Sajid to have some luck fellas: his bouncer is hooked to fine leg by Yousuf but the catch just evades the fielder and nets him four runs instead. WICKET!!! Yousuf 20 c Bell b Yardy: 12th over: Pakistan 102-4 (Hafeez 32 Inzamam 0)  Yardy, coming around the wicket, spears his balls in at middle stump. Yousuf lofts him high into the air and teh ball sails all the way down into Ian Bell's hands at long-on. Inzamam is accompanied to the crease by a chorus of boos, but he shrugs his shoulders and stoically takes his guard. 13th over: Pakistan 104-4 (Hafeez 33 Inzamam 1)  Three dot balls begin Sajid's latest over, but then Pakistan are hardly in a hurry with just 43 needed from 44. Mahmood almost manufactures a run-out as Hafeez follows through his shot down the crease. Sajid swoops on the ball but misses the stumps with his throw. Just two runs from the over. 14th over: Pakistan 110-4 (Hafeez 38 Inzamam 1)  Hafeez premeditates a reverse sweep, which skims away over the ground for four through square leg. A single puts Inzamam on strike, who seems a little like a fish out of water in this format: he is not allowed the time, space and composure which normally accompany his innings. Perhaps an elephant in water would be a better comparison, but then i'm not sure If elephants are good swimmers or not - can anyone enlighten me? 15th over: Pakistan 120-4 (Hafeez 44 Inzamam 1)  Paul Collingwood has come on to bowl. A brilliant stop on the boundary by Trescothick almost results in the run-out of Inzamam, who was lingering in the middle, hoping he wouldn't have to run a full 44 yards. Collingwood's bag of all-sorts delieveries is causing trouble for both batsmen - perhaps he should have been on earlier. 1WICKET!!! Hafeez 46 run out Collingwood: 16th over: Pakistan 127-5 (Inzamam 8 Razzaq 0)  Hafeez plays a yorker to Collingwood at backward point, starts for a single when Collingwood shatters his stumps with a dead-eye throw. "Surely now is the time for England to walk off the field in protest?!" writes StJohn Bird (and I though Rock Shoddy was a good name). Indeed, even more so as Inzamam gracefully picks Gough off his legs and swings him over mid-wicket for an effortless six. Inzamam v Gough, what a great battle this is: two of the grand old men of international cricket tussling it out like Sumo wrestlers in the ring. Literally like Sumo wrestlers in the ring. Gough produces his fabled in-swinging yorker, Inzamam blocks it out. 17th over: Pakistan 138-5 (Inzamam 9 Razzaq 9)  "Elephants are very good swimmers. I saw a great herd of african elephants swimming in Botswana. Quite graceful, actually". Unlike Inzamam." Thanks Ellen Morgan, guess I'll have to correct my comparison - how about a marshmallow among baked beans? Razzaq likes it, as he shows by slicing Collingwood through extra-cover for four, and then hooking him for another through square leg. 18th over: Pakistan 144-5 (Inzamam 11 Razzaq 17)  So with seven needed at the start of this over it would be a miracle if Gough can win it from here it doesn't stop the crowd imploring him to "do it Goughie!" . I am suddenly innundated with emails about the swimming prowess of elephants, thanks people. A four through the covers by Razzaq brings Pakistan level. To rub salt into the wound, Razzaq slaps the final ball into the air, it comes down at long-off, where it is dropped by Paul Collingwood, who buries his face in the turf as the ball trickles over the boundary for the winning runs. Well, that is it, and Pakistan have won easily. They have five wickets and 13 balls to spare.The pick of England's bowlers was debutant Stuart Broad, who picked up 2 for 35 inbetween being smashed for 20 odd off his third over. Gough, for all his yorkers, conspicuously failed to get a wicket. Pakistan breezed to the win courtesy of an insane 28 from Afridi and a more sedate 46 from Hafeez. It's not a good start for England but the team looks to have more pluck than the one that got hammered by Sri Lanka. England do need some better one-day batsmen in the middle order: with Pietersen and Trescothick out, no one looked like being able to batter the boundary hoardings. Pakistan, with their full team out, were as brilliant as their reputation suggested before this tour began. So that is it from me. I've learned a lot about elephants and I'll be back on Wednesday with my esteemed coleague Rob Smyth to bring you the first 50-over match. Thanks for all your emails everyone, hope you enjoyed it. 