 There was a tinge of green grass on the pitch at the start of play here, enough to persuade the Sussex captain, Mike Yardy, to field when he won the toss. Sussex's excellent new-ball bowling meant that Surrey were soon 15 for three, so Yardy's was a good decision. It was a better call, certainly, than the one taken by his club last Saturday, when they hired a marksman to shoot a fox that had been causing mischief around the ground. The fox has become something of a cause célèbre and a small crowd gathered at the gates during the day to protest against the club's action. Sussex's chief executive, Dave Brooks, suggested, somewhat bizarrely, that the fox had some kind of behaviour disorder and had been "acting oddly". Either way, the club had consulted local authorities and so claimed their actions were legitimate. It may just have been wiser to warn the alarmed local residents before their hitman started shooting on Saturday night. All that was forgotten when play got under way in this Division Two match and Sussex had a different target in their sights. Rana Naved-ul-Hasan removed Matt Spriegel in the seventh over for the only wicket of his parsimonious opening spell. At the other end Corey Collymore was equally miserly but it was Robin Martin-Jenkins who really wrecked Surrey's innings. Moving the ball a touch off the pitch, he trapped Mark Ramprakash leg before for five with his second ball. His fifth delivery came back off the pitch and passed through Usman Afzaal's gate, hitting off stump. At the other end Arun Harinath was unmoved by the chaos, as he was by almost everything that followed. Harinath had been dropped for this match but Michael Brown pulled out after failing a late fitness test. Only last week Ramprakash had said that "in the last few years Surrey's young players haven't grasped the opportunities that are here". The 23-year-old Harinath, who came through the academy, set about answering him in painstaking fashion. At lunch he was on 18. By tea he had 42. He had been dropped on 17 at slip and again in the same place on 47. He finally raised his fifty with a rare four, struck over extra-cover off Monty Panesar, who bowled unchanged from the Sea End for 23 tight overs while the seamers rotated from the Cromwell Road. Panesar's only breakthrough came just after tea, when he had Steve Davies caught by Yardy. That wicket came close on the heels of the dismissal of Rory Hamilton-Brown, who was returning to the county where he says he had such a good time over the past two years. The great lesson the new Surrey captain learnt at Sussex was that "with each innings you have to make a statement about how good you are. You can't just make pretty fifties". He avoided that here, making a pretty 36. He looked in confident touch until he sliced a snick to slip, playing a loose drive at Naved-ul-Hasan after lunch. Hamilton-Brown spent much of the remainder of the afternoon talking to his old mentor, Alec Stewart, on the balcony, presumably soaking up a tip or two about captaincy. As well as a 65-run partnership with Hamilton-Brown, Harinath shared stands of 55 with Gareth Batty and 62 with Chris Schofield, whose scatty sweeps and hot-footed drives made a stark contrast with Harinath's leaves and blocks. They were quite the odd couple. Harinath fell for 62, five overs before the close. That gave Martin-Jenkins a fourth wicket, making him the pick of Sussex's outstanding seam‑bowling unit. Harinath's soporific innings lasted 290 balls and seven minutes shy of six hours. As good a job as he did, he could still learn a thing or two from Brian Lara, who Surrey have announced is in negotiations with the club about a role on the staff for this season's Twenty20 campaign. 