 On 28 June Pakistan will play Kent at Canterbury, the first match of a long and gruelling summer which includes two 'home' Tests against Australia and four against England. The tour will be a true test of the old maxim, 'whatever doesn't kill you only makes you stronger'. They will likely be without the services of three men who have captained the side in the last 12 months, Shoaib Malik, Mohammad Yousuf and Younis Khan. The three have been banned from the team, the first for a year and the second two for an indefinite period, not so much as punishment but rather as a panacea for the team's woefully poor performance on their recent tour to Australia. Yesterday Yousuf, now aged 35, announced his retirement from international cricket in protest at the way he had been treated by the PCB, which accused the trio of provoking infighting and spreading indiscipline. "I received a letter from the PCB that my staying in the team is harmful for the team," he related at a valedictory press conference, "so I announce my retirement from international cricket." From a distance it seems as though the board have cut off their nose to spite their face. Between them Younis and Yousuf have scored an astonishing 27.48% of all Pakistan's Test runs since Younis made his debut in February 2000. They have made 39 Test centuries, weighed against the 53 made by the other 65 players picked to represent Pakistan in that time. They have been two titans of the age, Yousuf in particular touching the very heights of Test match batting during the phenomenal spell of form that followed his conversion from Christianity to Islam in 2005. For a time he was the most serene and steadfast batsman on the planet, rivalled only by Mahela Jayawardene in the brilliant orthodoxy of his technique. Over 11 Tests in 2006 he broke Viv Richards's record for most runs in a calendar year, scoring nine hundreds among a total of 1,788 runs. Sustaining such imperious form was beyond him. Still, while he will always be burdened by the caveat that he never scored so freely or prolifically against South Africa and Australia, anyone who saw him bat in those 12 months will never doubt the extent of his talent. Look at the Spin getting all misty-eyed. Leaving aside the distinct possibility that Yousuf will reverse his decision - he laced his farewell speech with the qualification that his decision was only 'for now' - there are plenty of people in a far better position to judge who think that this is a positive step forward for Pakistani cricket. Zaheer Abbas has said that "player power was affecting the team's performance badly", and that the decision will be beneficial as "a lesson for budding players". Another former captain, Ramiz Raja, concurred, saying: "The PCB needed to make an example and took a step to clean up the lack of discipline in the team." And Abdul Qadir labelled it: "A good decision and will go a long way to arrest the continuing decline of Pakistan cricket." All around, it seems, there are men willing to revel in the humiliations of the great. But Younis and Yousuf have a few allies too, not least Inzamam-ul-Haq, who has rebuffed suggestions that his old mucker in the middle-order will reverse his retirement just as soon as the PCB gives a little ground in the argument. In fact it has already done that, with chief selector Mohsin Khan saying yesterday, bizarrely, that "Pakistan still needs him in Test cricket and we have him in our plans for our upcoming tour of England." In which case you rather wonder why he was banned in the first place. Inzamam, for one, thinks it will take more than an apology to persuade Yousuf to return: "I don't think he will change his decision this time because he is extremely hurt at the way the board has made accusations against him and banned him, you don't treat senior players like this, there is total confusion and contradiction in the charges made against Yousuf by the inquiry committee." Wasim Akram has suggested that the decision had made the team "a laughing stock in the world", though it has to be said that the tour of Australia, in which they lost all nine international matches, had already done a fair job of that. The only notable grandee not too offer a clear opinion was Waqar Younis, who confined himself to saying that he was "shocked" by the verdict. Given that he has just been appointed head coach, you can understand his reluctance to speak out any louder. The confusion and contradiction extends well beyond the details of the inquiry report, which was never made public. Two weeks after Younis was banned, he was awarded the President's Pride of Performance Award for distinguished merit in the field of sports. Shahid Afridi, who was been fined and placed on probation by the same inquiry as punishment for the infamous ball-biting incident, was another recipient of the honour. And he has just been made team captain for the World Twenty20. Cricket has not seen such a startling selection cull since Ian Botham, Richards and Joel Garner left Somerset in 1986. That decision left a bitter taste which lingers to this day, and taints the memories many fans have of the men involved. The PCB must tread carefully in the coming weeks. If the effect of the Board's decision is to be anything other than detrimental to the team, it will take some clear-sighted and conciliatory man-management from the officials involved. Judging by their recent record, the Spin is not holding its breath. Having found themselves at the bottom of a deep hole, Pakistan have resolved to try and dig their way out again. The following is an extract from guardian.co.uk's free weekly cricket email, the Spin. To subscribe, click here. 