 Tradition will be restored at Lord's tomorrow as England, all dressed in white, take on South Africa at the start of a four-match series of five-day Tests, but in the small world of cricket the talk, still, is all about a tall Texan with a brilliant smile and throwback moustache. Almost four weeks after the launch of Sir Allen Stanford's "Twenty20 for 20" series at the same hallowed ground, there is a did-that-really-happen? aftershock among cricket's establishment. Did a Texan billionaire really land at Lord's in a helicopter, to be greeted like a head of state by Giles Clarke, the chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, then stride into the home of cricket to unveil $20m in greenbacks? Did the true legends of the game, including Sir Vivian Richards and Sir Ian Botham, really line up to endorse the prize of all those dollars in a Perspex box? And are 11 England players really going to compete in five "20/20" matches in the Caribbean for a purse of $1m to each winning player, the losing side to get nothing? The answer to all those questions is, of course, yes, and there is no visible cringe from the ECB, which is still triumphant that it sealed the deal. With the Indian Premier League blazing a money trail and huge TV dollars being talked up for the Twenty20 format, the ECB chief executive, David Collier, said the governing body had signed up to the Stanford project because it wanted to "maximise opportunities" for the England players.  At the epicentre of the culture shock which Stanford's cricketing prize fight represents is another central question, mostly being asked behind hands in England: what's in it for him? Stanford is a billionaire, chairman and owner of the Stanford Financial Group, an investment firm with $50bn under management, first founded by his grandfather, Lodis, during the Great Depression in 1932.  Cricket was not exactly in the blood when Allen himself grew up an heir to the family fortune in Texas, yet the $20m prize offered up for November's tournament follows more than $75m he has thrown into West Indies cricket since he founded the Stanford 20/20 tournament in Antigua in October 2005.  Over the next five years the Stanford organisation will invest a further $33.5m towards the West Indies Cricket Board's new plans to revive a sport sadly declining in a region which so recently and memorably bestrode the world. That is investment on a scale simply unimaginable previously to a board whose own draft strategic plan describes itself as having an "outdated governance structure" with "weak domestic game and fan support" plus "lack of confidentiality and trust [and] financial stability" and "chronic cash flow problems".  The Stanford Financial Group's official profile of the company chairman describes his investment in sport as a branch of his philanthropic and charitable works. "Sir Allen is a firm believer," the profile says, "in realising the potential of sports as a tool for sustainable development, as they promote participation, inclusion and citizenship, which serve to highlight commonalities and bridge cultural or ethnic divides." That is as right-on a view of sport as it gets from 21st century corporations, but in cricket circles here those aghast at seeing Richards and Botham assembled around all that cash have been muttering that Stanford's motives cannot be so altruistic. Their argument is that Stanford, a long-term resident and investor in Antigua and Barbuda, who now lives on the US Virgin Island of St Croix, has built his own and his company's profile through West Indies 20/20 cricket. He then spotted an opportunity to do it on an international scale, and although he looked elsewhere first, doing the deal with the ECB and lording it at Lord's means he has immediately made himself a major figure in London, a world financial centre. All of this apparently philanthropic investment in cricket is, the argument runs, actually smart, cost-effective marketing for the Stanford brand. The point about all that is that it is self-evidently correct - and the Stanford Group itself would not deny it. The Stanford name is indeed all over cricket and other prestigious sporting events, and that is the nature of sponsorship.  It is still an English, or British, preoccupation to feel passionately that there should be a distinction between the noble human values embodied by sport, and the self-interest and greed too often associated with business. In the US, no such cultural suspicion exists towards the major sports; teams are happily franchised, buccaneer owners make money out of them, and the unholy fortunes earned by players are admired, not resented. Indeed, a key to understanding Stanford's cricket project is to realise how American it is. Stanford has said that while he does not believe he will make a profit immediately, he believes 20/20 could become a huge global sport and at some point he intends to make a financial return from it. However unlikely it seems given the painful efforts to establish "soccer", Stanford's people really do believe that 20/20 could crack the US TV market. Statistics are batted about to support this: there were 37m hits in the US to live internet streaming of last year's World Twenty20, and the US is the Cricinfo website's second biggest market, because so many Indian and Pakistani émigrés are hungry for news of their homelands' people's game.  For $20m, the Stanford Group could perhaps buy itself a flash of advertising during the Super Bowl. Spending it on cricket means you can fly into Lord's on a helicopter and practically take the game over. The winner-takes-all format is very American: while the $20m purse will mostly be a turn-off to British cricket fans, and the loadsamoney cricketers who emerge victorious may face some flak, the idea of playing for a cash reward might excite Americans.  With the ECB and WICB signed up, players looking to cash in and the "legends" on board, no concerted voices have been raised in opposition. The only notable dissenter has been Michael Holding; the former great fast bowler resigned from the board of Stanford 20/20 in January, saying only that: "Sir Allen and I have different ideas about the development of West Indies cricket."  Holding has not expanded on that statement since, but he is known to love the Test format in which he excelled, and is no great fan of the ailing West Indies board. Stanford's proponents, however, see only good, that huge money is arriving in cricket, much of it going to winning players but a hefty chunk to the sport's development overseen by the governing bodies. Those who complain it is just not cricket, a crass development in a sport which should embody fair play and white clothes, should understand that sport has danced with money for generations, cricket longer than most. Sir Derek Birley, in his landmark A Social History of English Cricket, cites the first newspaper report he found of a cricket match played for a cash prize: "In Sussex, eleven of a side, and they played for fifty guineas apiece." That was in 1697. Accompanied by rather less fanfare than Sir Allen Stanford's "Twenty20 for 20" competition, last week the Stanford professional "20/20" teams formed on four West Indies islands were scrapped. Island cricket has never been professional in the Caribbean, so the players will now return to their former lives having been paid by Stanford for just one year. Some might point to this as evidence of ruthlessness in the Stanford project, but his organisation argues it has understood the need to invest more deeply in cricket's development, as planned by the West Indies Cricket Board. Of the $20m prize for the England competition, $1m will go to each winning player, $1m will be shared by the backroom team and $1m will be split between the non-participating squad players. That leaves £7m, $3.5m each for the WICB and ECB, who have committed to spending it on grassroots development. 