 Tim Ambrose has been given the opportunity to establish himself in England's side for both formats of the game after being named as the one-day wicketkeeper for the first time. Warwickshire's Ambrose, who has played in the last five Tests since taking over from Matt Prior during the winter, was the only uncapped player named in a 14-man squad to compete against New Zealand in one Twenty20 international and five one-day internationals. Ambrose replaces Phil Mustard, who averaged just 22.8 in the 10 one-day internationals he played during the winter and scored only one half-century.Mustard and Kent off-spinner James Tredwell are the only members of the squad who lost 3-1 in New Zealand during the winter to miss out with the remainder of that party retaining their places. "In choosing these players, we were keen to show consistency with the nucleus of the squad from the winter and give further opportunities to individuals who we feel are likely to be an important part of our plans as we build towards the ICC World Twenty20 event in England next summer and the next ICC Cricket World Cup," explained national selector Geoff Miller. "Tim Ambrose has already shown that he has the temperament and the ability required to succeed in Test cricket and his selection reflects our desire to use the same wicketkeeper in both the long and short forms of the game." Today's selection is something of a surprise with Ambrose struggling for runs during the current Test series against New Zealand - he has scored only three in two innings - while Prior is currently the leading run scorer in championship cricket and would solve England's dilemma over who should open. The selectors also discounted all-rounder Andrew Flintoff from their selection plans because he is only halfway through a six-week rehabilitation programme after suffering a side strain. "Andrew is still recovering from a side strain and we would prefer to wait until he is 100% fit before considering him for selection," added Miller. "We will be guided by the England medical team as to when the best time would be for him to return to international cricket. His rehabilitation is progressing well at present and we are optimistic that he will be available for selection later in the summer." 