 England will make a decision on whether Kevin Pietersen can play a full part in next week's third Ashes Test after he sees a specialist about the Achilles problem that caused him to struggle throughout England's victory over Australia at Lord's. "He's been struggling quite badly with that Achilles injury for quite a period of time," admitted the England coach Andy Flower. "It's an uncomfortable injury to have, especially in a Test match. You're always on your feet, if you bat for any period of time you're scampering between the wickets and you feel it all the time - there's no getting away from it. "It does make life a bit uncomfortable for an athlete to have that sort of injury, but he's going to be re-assessed later this week. He's got a couple of people he's going to be talking to and then the experts will make a decision on whether he's OK or not." England will wait for medical bulletins on Pietersen, all-rounder Andrew Flintoff (knee) and Graham Onions (elbow) before naming their squad, but Flower remains optimistic. Flintoff was bullish about his prospects of playing at Edgbaston, having bowled an unbroken 10-over spell to finish with five for 92 to seal victory before lunch yesterday while Flower remains upbeat about Onions' chances of selection. "Graham got a blow on the shoulder when he was batting," explained Flower. "It affected his elbow when he was bowling and as soon as he straightened it he was suffering severe pain. He was a doubt to bowl on that last day, but I would imagine with the rest available between the second and third Test he would be fine." Flintoff faces a week of rehabilitation in Manchester this week with physio Dave Roberts, but Flower insisted that despite the intensity of his performance yesterday, England would make a decision on fitness grounds before Edgbaston and would not be swayed by his importance to the side. "Without a doubt that was top quality fast bowling from Fred and probably more than that, it was leadership," enthused Flower. "He led from the front and it inspired confidence in the team and that's a great quality to have. "We will listen to him and what he says about his body but we also take medical advice from the experts and we've got to take a very simple decision on whether he, like anyone else, is fit enough to contribute fully in a five-day Test match. "If he can do that he'll play and if he can't, he'll acknowledge that. He wouldn't want to let the team down. We've got to make decisions on what's best for him and more importantly, what's best for the side." 