 Cricket Australia and the Australian Cricketers’ Association are also on a collision course over negotiations on a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). The two parties are in the process of discussing a new agreement, with the current MoU expiring in June and the ACA have requested to sit in on future CA board meetings with the sport’s governing body, in turn, questioning why it should fund the players’ union. A big sticking point relates to the salary model, with CA keen to end the status quo and the union wanting to maintain the current system, that’s been in place since 1997, in which players’ pay pool is devised by a percentage of CA revenue. Other major divisions have been laid bare in submissions given to players this week and with the next round of formal talks not expected until January, both parties have plenty to mull over. The “outdated ... and rather condescending” challenges faced by female cricketers, including a pregnancy clause, is one of many issues flagged in ACA’s submission to players. The union document, which includes a preambles from men’s and women’s national captains Steve Smith and Meg Lanning, calls on CA to show greater transparency. This includes having a union presence at board meetings. “This would be very progressive for an Australian sport and would allow player input at a constructive and strategic stage in decision making,” the ACA said in its submission. In sharp contrast, CA “questions the appropriateness of CA directly funding the ACA” in its formal notes tabled to players. “We believe the players will continue to appreciate the role of the ACA, and should be empowered to make considered decisions on the level of ACA funding,” CA said. CA’s submission calls on player payments to be tweaked, with one notable example being increased rewards for squads winning Test series on the subcontinent. It also details the idea that salary increases for domestic players “should be driven by” Big Bash League payments, instead of state retainers. Meanwhile, the ACA has asked CA to establish a formal scheduling advisory group that would allow the union to “assess and improve draft schedules prior to implementation”. The overcrowded domestic and international schedule is a major concern for players. “The negative consequences of getting scheduling wrong are clear,” the ACA submission said. “The potential for injury to manifest itself increases; fatigue can lead to burn out and shortened careers. “Playing with injury can shorten careers; playing with injury can affect the quality of the contest. Too many games can reduce the significance of the contest. Too many games (without context and meaning) can reduce the significance of representation.” CA chief executive James Sutherland, speaking earlier this week, suggested his organisation works “through schedules with the ACA from time to time”. “The players are a very important stakeholder group, as are many others,” Sutherland said. Cricket Australia (CA) has also defended its controversial stance on pregnant women’s players. In a move some claim may be illegal, CA admits it asks its female players to sign a contract saying they are not pregnant, with the sporting body saying it is a duty of care issue. “The safety of any player, whether they be Cricket Australia, Women’s Big Bash League or state and territory contracted, is always our number one priority,” CA said in a statement amid pay negotiations with men’s and women’s players. “We are committed to providing a safe environment for all cricket players (including pregnant players) and all other cricket participants.” “We are well aware of and abide by Federal, State and Territory legislation which makes it unlawful to discriminate against a player on the basis of pregnancy or potential pregnancy. Any player who becomes pregnant is encouraged to make her own decision on whether or not to continue playing cricket in consultation with her medical advisers.” CA released the statement to “clarify” its position after The Australian newspaper published a story on Thursday revealing the contentious contractual clauses. Advocacy group Women Sport Australia said CA’s position potentially revealed a reluctance to pay out maternity leave. “As they are only offering women one-year contracts, not multi-year contracts as the men get, it looks like they are trying to avoid having to honour maternity leave provisions for female players,” the group’s president Carol Fox said. Pat Howard, CA’s executive general manager of team performance, said: “In everything we do, we place the health and safety of our players as the highest priority”. “Our only interest in whether one of our women players is pregnant is to ensure the health of her and her baby, and we have strict rules around medical confidentiality,” Howard said. “We are very mindful that cricket involves physical risk, and we need to ensure that our medical staff and players are aware of every aspect that can affect a player’s health.” “All our policies have been developed in conjunction with the Australian Cricketers’ Association, and together we will continue to refine and improve all policies and contractual clauses that relate to player health and safety.” 