Inquiry hears the NSW fast bowler ‘felt confused and upset’ and held the right side of Hughes’s head after the batsman was felled by his delivery 
 New South Wales fast bowler Sean Abbott has detailed how he attempted to comfort Phillip Hughes in the moments immediately after the batsman was struck by his delivery. Abbott was not called as a witness on day three of the week-long inquiry into the accidental death of the Test cricketer, but instead tendered a written statement detailing his recollections of the Sheffield Shield match played at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 25 November 2014. Hughes was playing for South Australia. Abbott detailed his immediate reaction: “I saw him start to sway and I ran to the other end of the pitch and I held the right side of his head with my left hand. “I remained on the field until Phillip was placed on the medicab and then returned to the change room. Once in the change room I felt confused and upset, I had a headache, people kept coming up to me but I cannot recall what they said.” Abbott did not recall any particular instructions to target Hughes as part of a specific team plan and did not recall “any changes in atmosphere or mood of the game after lunch”. Abbott also stated that he didn’t recall any sledging that day or “any complaints being made about sledging” and asserts that “the game that day was being played within the laws and spirit of cricket”. In his statement to the inquest in Sydney Abbott indicated Hughes was a player he “always looked up to”. He described Hughes as “a tough competitor” who he “always knew I would have to work hard to get him out”. Abbott noted as well his recollection that the two players had made their international T20 debuts together for Australia. The inquest also heard from Scott Henderson, who called the first ambulance after Hughes was hit. Henderson, an events co-ordinator, said he was at the neighbouring Allianz stadium when he was told about the incident at the SCG. Henderson confirmed he had not had training about what information should be provided to emergency services. The inquest continues on Thursday.  