 Australia take a 2-0 lead in this ODI series, but prepare to be reading nothing but in-depth analysis and indecipherable wah-nalysis on whether Ben Stokes should have been given his marching orders after that handball.  For now, go home to your loved ones, hold them tight and tell them everything is going to be OK...  
 Morgan holes out and that’s the game. A brilliant knock from the skipper but he had too much to do. England’s middle-order fail again but well bowled Australia, particularly Pat Cummins, who finishes with 4-56.  Updated
 42nd over: England 244-9 (Morgan 85, Finn 1) Plunkett is bowled by a superb yorker - all credit to Starc there. Finn gets off strike with his second ball to get Morgan on strike but Starc is full and Morgan can only find fielders with one ball left. Dot ball...  Something poetic about the laws being enforced - correctly - at the home of said laws, and the fury of the crowd within. #EngvAus #Stokes 
 41st over: England 242-8 (Morgan 85, Plunkett 24) Plunkett’s running with the fours – charging NCN and edging him fine past the keeper for another. And then Morgan, with a splash of class, hits inside out over cover for four. Partnership between these two is 55 off 21...  
 40th over: England 230-8 (Morgan 78, Plunkett 19) A gorgeous strike down the ground from Plunkett goes for four before he picks up Cummins over mid-wicket for another! And then a slash away through point for another boundary! Three so far and Cummins is rattled for the first time. AND ANOTHER!  
 39th over: England 213-8 (Morgan 78, Plunkett 3) Stunning from Morgan: he goes over the top of mid off for four, around the corner for six and over mid on for a huge, huge six!  
 38th over: England 194-8 (Morgan 64, Plunkett 1) Another sharp bumper to Morgan and the England skipper responds with a well-controlled square shot into the leg-side for a single. Rashid then goes but Morgan finishes the over with a great hook over square leg for six!  
 37th over: England 186-7 (Morgan 54, Rashid 2) Rashid and Morgan exchange the strike with some decent shots but nothing of any real worth given the state of the game. Good bowling from Marsh.  
 36th over: England 184-7 (Morgan 53, Rashid 1) Woakes goes trying to pull Cummins square and then a bit of calm as Morgan cops a nasty blow on the back of the helmet. While he is wearing a new Masuri, he isn’t wearing the attachments which protect the top of the neck area. He seems OK to carry on. 
 35th over: England 182-6 (Morgan 52, Woakes 6) Morgan brings up an excellent fifty in the circumstances – people going nuts in the stands, wickets tumbling at the other end. 66 balls for it - two fours and a six. 
 34th over: England 178-6 (Morgan 49, Woakes 5) Good shot from Morgan, opening the face to guide Coulter-Nile to third man for four! Six from the over.  Fielders believe they have been denied a run out, batsman avoiding being hurt!!Both have valid points! Who'd be an Umpire ???? 
 33rd over: England 172-6 (Morgan 48, Woakes 0) Ali goes trying to up the tempo and Chris Woakes comes in to replace him. On strike now after Morgan pushes a single into the off side and he defends his first ball back to the bowler. Tries to dab past the keeper but doesn’t get good enough contact on the ball.  
 Ali top edges a sweep deep into square leg, where Mitchell Marsh is on hand to take a simple catch...  Updated
 31st over: England 167-5 (Morgan 44, Ali 7) Finally some malice against Maxwell as Morgan hits him down the ground for six! Keeping his head while all those in the stands, dressing room and social media are losing theirs... 
 30th over: England 160-5 (Morgan 37, Ali 7) Nathan Coulter-Nile back into the attack and his first ball to Moeen is short, allowing leftie to pull him high into the leg-side... for one run. Morgan nearly chops on last ball but makes it through for a single.  
 29th over: England 156-5 (Morgan 35, Ali 5) Starc involved again as he palms a reverse sweep into the air and can’t hold on to the catch.  Updated
 28th over: England 151-5 (Morgan 34, Ali 1) Biggest cheer of the day as Starc bowls a no ball followed by the harshest boos as the ball is hit back to the bowler and he feigns another shy at the stumps. Penultimate ball is worked around the corner for four! That's only the 6th time a wicket has fallen via obstruction of the field in an ODI & first time involving England pic.twitter.com/6Gf3LnKw0u 
 27th over: England 144-5 (Morgan 29, Ali 1) Three ball duck for Buttler has he misreads the ball out of the hand and off the pitch. He’s binned on review and Moeen Ali comes to the crease. Crowd livid. So are some of you on e-mail... From Michael Jenkins: “When the ball’s thrown full pelt at you and you have milliseconds to respond, you do tend to put your hand out toward the ball when looking to protect yourself. Has Ben Stokes just become the first batsman ever to be given out solely for having extraordinary reactions and hand/eye coordination? Cowardly stuff from the Aussies.” 
 Maxwell, around the wicket, turns the ball into the pads of Buttler. Not out says the umpire but a review and Buttler’s miserable summer continues... Updated
 26th over: England 141-4 (Morgan 27, Buttler 0) Starc’s looking to his wide yorkers but he gets Stokes out obstructing the field in the end. Expect the debate to rage on and on. Will’s sussed it, tbf...  That is out. Fine. But it's also an absolute shambles. Try doing anything other than that in real time. 
 My word. Stokes drives to Starc who picks up the ball and throws at the stumps. Stokes, diving back into his crease, puts a hand out towards the ball and stops the ball from going onto his stumps. It might be heading to the stumps, he might be protecting himself, but the umpires have decided that it is out. The crowd and the England dressing room are livid.  Updated
 25th over: England 136-3 (Morgan 26, Stokes 6) Agar’s undone by the back spin rather comically and concedes an extra two. Maxwell’s not happy, giving him a glare that suggests a wedgie is in the offing. Six off the over.  
 24th over: England 130-3 (Morgan 24, Stokes 2) Marsh keeping England in check with his wicket-to-wicket routine. Stokes plays one off middle stump which has everyone in the field ooo-ing. Nae danger.  
 23rd over: England 128-3 (Morgan 23, Stokes 1) Really nice back-cut from Morgan beats gully and the sweeper for four! Morgan then times nicely over the top of cover but Mitchell Starc does really well to save two there. Seven from the over. 
 22nd over: England 121-3 (Morgan 16, Stokes 1) Marsh gets the breakthrough as Taylor’s skittish innings comes to an end. Ben Stokes the new man in... 
 Taylor tries to guide one to third man but thin edges through to Wade. Odd knock, but got going and cocked up there...  Updated
 20th over: England 116-2 (Taylor 41, Morgan 14) First sign of aggression from Eoin Morgan, who skips down to Marsh and hits him aerially over cover. The ball plugs, though, so it’s just two.  
 19th over: England 109-2 (Taylor 37, Morgan 11) Taylor gets away with a duffed charge as he yorks himself but manages to get back into his crease before Wade is able to gather. Three singles off the over.  
 18th over: England 106-2 (Taylor 35, Morgan 10) Taylor thrashes Cummins with a lot more purpose and gets him square for four! And again, this time along the ground.  
 17th over: England 97-2 (Taylor 27, Morgan 10) Maxwell into the attack and Morgan punches him through cover, where there’s a man fielding on the boundary. Two runs. Taylor finishes the over toeing a ramp which just plops up in front of him.  
 16th over: England 91-2 (Taylor 25, Morgan 5) Couple of wides from Cummins as leftie Morgan faces up. A delay as George Bailey goes under the lid. Length delay as there’s a bat change for Morgan and the umpires decide to take drinks after just one legal delivery in the over. Weird. Anyway, single around the corner and Taylor is back on strike, defending into the off side. But another four through mid-wicket eases Taylor’s woes.  
 15th over: England 82-2 (Taylor 21, Morgan 4) That’s more like it, Jimmothy – he’s onto a short-length ball from Marsh which he gets out of the screws for four through midwicket.  
 14th over: England 76-2 (Taylor 16, Morgan 3) Taylor gets a couple past point before he’s beaten on the inside edge by a Cummins delivery that seams in, just missing his off-stump. He then cuts the next 1211931 balls into the ground.  
 13th over: England 73-2 (Taylor 13, Morgan 3) Taylor struggling but at least with Morgan they can pick up a few more singles. Three start the over before Taylor pushes a couple of dots into the covers, which he follows out with a dab to third man.  
 12th over: England 69-2 (Taylor 11, Morgan 1) Garbage start to the over as a short wide-ball from Taylor is skewed high to third man, who drops a simple chance. It went quickly to him but it should have been taken. Anyway, Roy’s out edging to Wade so I suppose that’s something. Morgan gets a nasty bouncer first up, which he punches (literally) behind square for a single. Taylor ends the over with a peculiar looking shot. He’s had an odd 20 balls so far...  
 A quick ball – 90+mph – is edged through to Wade, who takes a good catch diving up to his right.  Updated