 The Fifa executive committee has confirmed that its presidential election will go ahead as planned on 26 February and belatedly embraced a series of reform ideas that will be voted on at the same time. Following a meeting in Zurich chaired by interim president Issa Hayatou, installed after Sepp Blatter was suspended for 90 days, it also welcomed a series of reform ideas proposed by a committee chaired by former International Olympic Committee executive François Carrard. The proposals include term limits of 12 years, age limits of 74 years, transparency on pay and an idea to rename the Fifa executive committee as the Fifa Council and hand control over commercial matters to the Fifa administration. Presenting its interim report, the committee said reform should be guided by the following principles: responsibility, humility, tone at the top, respect and candor. But the ideas, to be presented in their final form in December ahead of a vote in February, are unlikely to be enough to stave off calls for more comprehensive external reform. “In order to restore confidence in Fifa, significant changes to Fifa’s institutional structure and operational processes are necessary to make them more transparent and accountable,” the Reform Committee said in a statement. “Essential changes to the culture of Fifa are necessary to effect lasting change on the organization and to restore Fifa’s reputation so that it can focus on its mission: to promote football throughout the world”. Meanwhile, the politicking continued ahead of next February’s election. Despite being also being banned for 90 days over accepting an alleged “disloyal payment” from Blatter, Fifa did not rule Michel Platini out completely but confirmed that he could not stand while under suspension. Sheikh Salman, the Asian Football Confederation president who initially supported Platini until he was suspended, is expected to stand and will immediately become favourite to win if he does so. The only other declared candidates to date are Prince Ali bin al-Hussein of Jordan and former Trinidad and Tobago player David Nakhid. Sheikh Ahmad, the Kuwaiti Fifa executive committee member seen as the region’s powerbroker, said that there was a “big possibility” that Sheikh Salman would stand, predicting that if he did he would command a similar level of support to that which Platini had before his suspension. “He will start with the same big number of potential support,” Sheikh Ahmad said. “I think there will be more than three continents.” 