 As this 172nd Manchester derby began, the chief subplot centred on how Claudio Bravo would fare on his City debut as Joe Hart’s replacement. His £17m acquisition had been Pep Guardiola’s headline summer move as the England man was sent to Torino because his ball skills are not up to the Catalan’s desired standard. Bravo’s first appearance would offer clues about Guardiola’s judgment and the new keeper’s ability. Both City and United entered a seismic occasion propelled by flying starts under their new managers, having won all three league matches. The visitors were without the suspended Sergio Agüero and playing away from the Etihad Stadium might further weaken them. The theory was this would further stiffen Bravo’s challenge as the onus was on United to take advantage. But if José Mourinho’s team hoped to expose him from kick-off a trick was missed. Instead the 33-year-old strolled around his area and watched as his side took the contest to United. What he saw was a lesson in keep‑ball, moving the opposition around and penetration at will. Bravo’s first sweeper-keeper action was to collect possession from midway in his half and ping off a pass. When the muted Paul Pogba hit a 25-yard shot he was back in position to watch this sail over. The former Barcelona, Real Sociedad and Colo-Colo goalkeeper’s first full training session with Guardiola’s squad had been only 48 hours beforehand, because of the international break. Yet at this juncture there was no hint of Bravo being anything other than comfortable. There was a neat take, pause, then lay-off to Fernandinho after careful consideration. Later, he was clear in urging John Stones forward when receiving the ball from Aleksandar Kolarov. As half-time neared, City were coasting at 2-0 thanks to a fine Kevin De Bruyne opener and Kelechi Iheanacho’s second. Now, though, Bravo’s serene start descended into a horror show. Only two minutes remained before the break when disaster first struck. Over came a high Wayne Rooney free-kick and up went the Chilean for a regulation catch. Instead, Bravo spilled, Zlatan Ibrahimovic pounced and it was 2-1. United were back in a contest City had been coasting through. Here was Bravo’s first serious test and he failed miserably. Afterwards, Guardiola decided to back his man. “It is not a mistake because he attacked the ball. I love when goalkeepers take decisions to leave 10, 15 metres in front to attack the ball. It was an outstanding goal from Ibrahimovic that made the difference. “Sometimes when that happens maybe the player can think, ‘It is my fault’. Instead Claudio said: ‘OK, it’s football. We were unlucky. The situation is unlucky.’ And in that moment in the second half look what he did – he played again and played again with the ball. Claudio Bravo’s personality showed me a lot today.” Moments later United, in the ascendant owing to the howler, attacked again. When the ball came to Bravo there was a mis-control, then he recovered. The Chilean was rattled, an impression confirmed as the referee, Mark Clattenburg, prepared to blow for the break. Bravo raced out to clear, there was a mix-up with Bacary Sagna and Jesse Lingard could fashion an opening for Ibrahimovic. The latter should have equalised and Bravo should have been staring at a count of two mistakes, two United goals. But the effort was weak. Bravo was now in hoping-not-to-err–again mode. If his handling was shown up, a few minutes into the second half the slick footwork he was purchased for also caused consternation. Stones laid a pass back to him, there was a clumsy drag-back which showed too much ball to Rooney and Bravo was lucky not to concede a penalty when lunging at the forward. Another near miss came after the goalkeeper dawdled when looking for an option for a pass near his goalline. This invited Rooney on to him until Bravo finally scrambled away before he was clipped by United’s captain, just as the ball was offloaded. Rooney was booked but for Bravo and his team-mates it was too close a call and the latest incident in what had been transformed from a promising afternoon into a small nightmare. Again, Guardiola backed him. “I know it’s risk,” he said of the desire for his keeper to be the first man in City’s buildup. “If we lose the ball it is a goal against us but when we win with that, we win many, many, many things.” A precis of Bravo’s day occurred at the death. In came another aerial ball, once more the Chilean could not deal with it and Stones fly-hacked City to safety. Guardiola added: “He was amazing with his feet, saves, going to attack the ball. I am happy for him. It is not easy the first game after two training sessions coming here and play with that personality.” The hope will be that Bravo’s confidence is not shattered by what happened today. Throughout, the Stretford End dished out pantomime “oohs” and “aahs” whenever the ball went near him. He should brace himself for more in City’s next few matches. 