 Louis van Gaal believes Manchester United supporters should be happy their team are through to the fourth round of the FA Cup and suggested that traffic around Old Trafford, rather than apathy, was one of the reasons why many supporters left before the end of the dull 1-0 win over Sheffield United. Thousands of fans streamed out of the stadium on Saturday before the end of the third-round tie, which United won thanks to a penalty three minutes into stoppage time from Wayne Rooney. United did not have a shot on target against the League One side until the 69th minute and were booed off at half-time. Van Gaal insists supporters should be happy with the way their team have returned to winning ways in recent weeks following a run of eight matches without victory. “You have to be happy as a Manchester United fan that we are in next round and we have won the last two games,” he said. When asked why many had left the stadium early, Van Gaal said: “They are not thinking that we would score, I think, and maybe also because of the traffic that they leave the stadium a few minutes early. There are many reasons.” “I think the fans have supported our team. It is not an easy time now. How many stadiums were like our stadium, full, I think? You can mention how they leave but you can also mention how they come to the stadium to watch this FA Cup match.” Paul Scholes tore into Van Gaal after the final whistle, claiming the players looked “bored”. Van Gaal refused to respond to the former United midfielder. “What do I have to do now? React to Paul Scholes? Do you want that?” he snapped back at journalists at his press conference to preview Tuesday’s match at Newcastle. Bastian Schweinsteiger is out of the game at St James’ Park because of a knee injury he sustained in the FA Cup win. Adnan Januzaj was pulled out of the Under-21 squad for Monday’s game at Reading because Van Gaal does not think he is fit enough. He recalled Januzaj from his loan at Borussia Dortmund last week but the manager told MUTV: “We have reconsidered and we think we have to build him up for the game and not risk too much by putting him in a game at once.” 