 In cricket, things seldom tend to be as good as they once were. The first substantial records of organised, competitive matches in England date from the late 18th century, and as early as 1833 John Nyren, one of the first great cricket writers, was complaining that the game wasn't a patch on what it had been when he was lad. Cricket seems to have been in steady decline ever since it started. The low thrum of grumbles about the state it's in is just as much a part of the traditional soundtrack of the cricket season as that familiar old crack of leather on willow. The clamour has been growing louder lately, and with good reason. This week the game's governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC), unanimously elected Narayanaswami Srinivasan, a 69-year-old Indian businessman, as its new chairman. As the scandal that has engulfed Fifa has shown, the entry bar to international sports administration is set low but even by those near-subterranean standards, the appointment of Srinivasan is a staggering decision. He is not currently acting as chairman of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) while an investigation is held into allegations of match-fixing related to the Chennai Super Kings, the team owned by Srinivasan's company, India Cements. Srinivasan's son-in-law, Gurunath Meiyappan, has already been arrested and charged with illegally providing information to bookmakers. Srinivasan himself proved to be such an obstruction to the course of justice that the supreme court of India was forced to demand that he step down from the BCCI. "It is nauseating that Srinivasan continued as BCCI chief," said Justice AK Patnaik. "He should go if cricket is to be cleaned." India Cements had originally insisted that Meiyappan was only an "honorary member" of the Super Kings' staff, a "young enthusiast" who "travelled with the team". This was proved to be false. In the words of one of the Super Kings players, the Australian batsman Mike Hussey, Meiyappan was "a close part of the team". Meiyappan described himself as the "team principal". Srinivasan has said: "There is no wrongdoing on my part, and therefore my conscience is very clear that there is no taint on me." It has been widely reported, however, that his is one of 13 names included in a sealed list of people implicated in the fixing scandal. The list is expected to be made public in September, when the former chief justice Mukul Mudgal releases the findings of his investigation. It is not the first scandal Srinivasan has been involved in. He was linked to the Jaganmohan Reddy case, accused of investing in companies in return for political favours. And he has been attacked by his estranged son, Ashwin, who says his father is "vehemently homophobic" and used "constant physical and mental torture" to try to "cure" Ashwin of his homosexuality. Srinivasan refused to comment on his son's remarks. This, then, is the man who has just become the single most important and influential figure in world cricket. Perhaps the only people in a position to check Srinivasan's rise to the top of the ICC would have been the chairmen of the national boards of Australia, Wally Edwards, and England, Giles Clarke. They represent the only two boards with anything like the degree of financial independence necessary to take a stand against the BCCI, which generates approximately 80% of the game's revenues. But the boards led by Clarke and Edwards have decided it is better working with Srinivasan than to stand against him, a decision they justify on the grounds that the BCCI had threatened to withdraw from the ICC altogether. Clarke, Edwards and Srinivasan actually agreed with the many that "something must be done" about the ICC – which, in its old guise, was universally acknowledged to be a decrepit organisation. They decided that "something" was a radical redesign of its structure so that power was concentrated in their hands, and an overhaul of its revenue distribution model to ensure their three boards get greater rewards. They insist that all the ICC's members will benefit financially from the changes, an argument that has been subject to considerable dispute. The crucial detail is this: by working with Srinivasan, Clarke and Edwards hope to safeguard the future of Test cricket, which is waning while the T20 format the three have done so much to promote explodes in popularity. They hope to ensure India's commitment to Test cricket, and also to a special fund, designed to subsidise Test match cricket in countries where it has grown so unpopular that it is no longer financially viable. It is a gamble, and one made at the considerable cost of ceding power to a man deemed unfit to be in charge of his own national board. Andy Bull is a Guardian cricket writer 