 The chucking and Mankading controversies that have bubbled up in the build-up to the first, brief, Test series of the summer could be bad news for England. That is the view of Dav Whatmore, the softly spoken, Colombo-born former Sri Lanka coach, who will always be most closely associated with the famous World Cup triumph of 1996 but also has first-hand experience of the major characters in this tour party and their ability to thrive off a siege mentality. Whatmore was in the first of his stints in charge of the Sri Lanka team at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Boxing Day 1995, when a young Muttiah Muralitharan was no-balled by the Australian umpire Darrell Hair for the first time. “It was very much a closing of the ranks,” he recalled this week from Melbourne, after a peripatetic period in which he has been working in England, Scotland and Dubai in a new role as a coaching adviser with the International Cricket Council. “We supported Murali then and I believe a big effort was made when it happened again in Adelaide a few years later.” Within three months of the first instance Sri Lanka beat Australia in Lahore to claim that landmark World Cup title, with Murali playing a key part. “In this case this boy Sachithra Senanayake, [the 29-year-old spinner who flicked off Jos Buttler’s bails at Edgbaston a couple of days after learning that he was being investigated for the legality of his action at Lord’s] he’s only beginning his career. I know he’s very popular within the group as a person who has got potential to become a very decent contributor for a period of time for the national team. They will support him, close ranks, draw this extra courage.” Mahela Jayawardene had confirmed as much immediate after the Edgbaston controversy. “Oh definitely, it was a big motivating factor,” the elder statesman said of the fresh questions over Senanayake’s action, revealing that Sri Lanka had organised a “special dinner” for him to show their supportthe previous night. “Sachi is a fantastic young player in the group, very cheerful, he keeps everyone happy. We wanted to make sure he feels comfortable with us.” Senanayake was never going to be a member of the Test squad, having been overtaken by Dilruwan Perera since winning his sole cap against Whatmore’s Pakistan in Abu Dhabi over the New Year. But Angelo Mathews, the captain whose refusal to withdraw the Mankading appeal so infuriated Alastair Cookand the rest of the England set-up, will be there for the toss at Lord’s on Thursdaycorrect morning – it will be fascinating to see how the reaction of the MCC members compares with the jeering he received in Birmingham on Tuesday night. Whatmore does not believe the 27-year-old Tamil, who became Sri Lanka’s youngest Test captain when he was appointed in February 2013, will be unduly concerned. “I worked with Angelo for a year with the Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL and I’d say his temperament lends itself to the captaincy,” he added. “You can see already that his performances haven’t suffered. I think the Sri Lankan Cricket Board were looking for a long-term proposition which is always preferable to chopping and changing.” Of course Mathews will have those heavyweight lieutenants, Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara, behind him. Their longevity and excellence is now taken for granted but it is still startling to be reminded that Jayawardene’s first Test in England came way back in 1998, when Sri Lanka were still deemed worthy of only a single match at the end of the summer and Muralitharan stunned Alec Stewart’s team at The Oval. Sangakkara did not make his debut until 2000, during Whatmore’s second spell with the team. “It was a one-day game against Pakistan in Galle and you could tell even then he had something,” the former coach recalls. “Both Sanga and Mahela were at a stage then when they were beginning to shape their careers – they looked up to the seniors in the team then, although they were already in the process of becoming seniors themselves.” This will be their fourth Test together at Lord’s, where Jayawardene scored centuries in each of his first two appearances and averages over 75, and they are well aware that Sri Lanka have still to win there in six Tests stretching back to their 1984 debut. “They’ll be excited, because now in this series they can be very confident of putting up a very competitive performance,” Whatmore said. “In previous series over here England have had some terrific players and our memories haven’t been great. I don’t think this England team is as strong and the Sri Lankan boys have got some good experience. The England set-up have got a lot more to be worried about than this Mankading stuff.” 