Plus: Silly strings; title-winning fathers and sons; No ups or downs (2); and the sad story of Serhiy Scherbakov. Send your questions and answers to knowledge@ or get in touch via Twitter @TheKnowledge_GU 
 “Mark Noble has made 239 Premier League appearances [now 241], but has no full international honours,” writes Kris Garthwaite. “In an era in which clubs are constantly looking to (and able to) ‘upgrade’ using the vast amounts of TV money available to them, this seems rare. Who else in the Premier League era can rival (or, most likely, better) Noble’s record for league appearances without international recognition?” Step forward poor old Sylvain Distin. A stalwart with Everton, Portsmouth and Manchester City, Distin has racked up 467 Premier League appearances without getting so much as a sniff of an international cap with France. He announced his international retirement in tongue-in-cheek fashion in May 2014, tweeting: “I m retiring from France team. It was a wonderful experience and after a record of #0 cap it’s time to say goodbye and focus on my club.” As for the England side, Kevin Davies was a long-time frontrunner but his solitary international appearance against Montenegro in 2010 rules him out despite his 444 Premier League appearances. So then we have to turn to Noble’s erstwhile West Ham team-mate Kevin Nolan, who has managed to rack up 401 Premier League appearances without troubling the England squad.  Others who can perhaps feel a little hard done by include former Wimbledon and Tottenham centre-back Chris Perry (363 Premier League appearances, no caps), Newcastle and Everton utility man Steve Watson (351 Premier League appearances, no caps), Fulham and Sunderland midfielder Steed Malbranque (336 Premier League appearances, no caps despite two call-ups to the France squad) and Southampton full-back Jason Dodd (329 Premier League appearances, no caps).  Current players rivalling Noble include Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta, who has made 282 Premier League appearances while being overlooked by Spain, and Everton legend Tony Hibbert, with 264 Premier League appearances to his name and no England caps. Sunderland’s Lee Cattermole has made 247 Premier League appearances without international recognition, Swansea City’s Wayne Routledge 238, Sunderland’s Craig Gardner 234 and Norwich City’s Gary O’Neil 200. “What’s the longest run of players one can come up with whose first name and second name are linked?” tweeted Chris Van Thomas. “Eg: Cameron-Jerome-Thomas.” After several hours of exhaustive
 research a 14 player chain is the best we can manage: Aaron-Pierre- Laurent-Robert-Lee-Martin-Scott-Martin-Cameron-Jerome-Thomas-Abel-Xavier-Chen-Bo-Andersson. Aaron Pierre (Wycombe defender)Pierre Laurent (former Leeds United forward)Laurent Robert (of Newcastle fame)Robert Lee (ditto)Lee Martin (former Manchester United youngster, now of Millwall)Martin Scott (Bristol City and Sunderland defender)Scott Martin (currently on loan at Forfar)Martin Cameron (once of Alloa and Bristol Rovers)Cameron Jerome (Norwich forward)Jerome Thomas (formerly of Charlton, West Brom and Palace)Thomas Abel (a Danish title winner with Herfolge)Abel Xavier (interestingly bearded full-back)Xavier Chen (Belgium-born Chinese Taipei international)Chen Bo (current Yinchuan Helanshan defender)Bo Andersson (Djurgardens forward in the 1990s) Feel free to go bigger and better: knowledge@ If Leicester City win the Premier League this season, would Peter and Kasper Schmeichel be the first father and son combo to both be the starting goalkeeper for a league title-winning team in the same country?” wonders Conway O’Neill. “We can do a bit better than that,” writes Sean DeLoughry. “I give you the Bulgarian three-generation Mihaylov dynasty, complete with 150 odd international caps and 10 league titles. “Father, Biser Mihaylov, won four league titles with Levski in 1965, 1968, 1970 and 1974, and a handful of international caps. Son, Borislav, was probably the most famous of the family. He won league titles with Levski in 1984, 1985 and 1988, won 102 caps for Bulgaria, starred in the 1994 World Cup and later spent a couple of seasons at Reading. “Grandson, Nikolay, won the Bulgarian league with Levski in 2006 and 2007 and was due to join Liverpool before running into work permit issues. He ended up in Holland instead where he helped Steve McClaren’s Twente to an unlikely Eredivisie title in 2010. He’s now playing in Turkey and he has over 30 caps to his name.” “Which clubs have experienced the most ups and downs in their histories?” wrote Jim Hearson a few weeks ago. “On the flip side, who are the most stable/boring clubs?”“Gainsborough Trinity, founded in 1873, have never been promoted or relegated. Ever,” writes John Spooner. “They were elected to the football league second division in 1896 (but not on merit - they finished second in the Midland League that season) and voted out in 1910 (when there was of course no relegation from the league).  “Since then they’ve changed leagues as a result of league reorganisation, when the Northern Premier League was formed in the late 1960s and in 2004 when the Conference North was formed. But never relegated or promoted. The record was threatened when they reached the play-offs a couple of years ago, but the record looks set to continue as they are currently a solid 10th out of 22 in the National League North.” “Trawling the U-21 World Championships archives, I saw that in 1991 Serhiy Scherbakov won the Golden Shoe,” wrote Andrew Gordon in 2007. “I searched for him on Wikipedia and it seems he moved to Sporting Lisbon from Shakhtar Donetsk in 1993 but then suddenly retired in 1995. Since as far as I can tell he is still alive, what happened?” Unfortunately, Andrew, it’s a sad story. Scherbakov had been brought to Sporting by Bobby Robson in 1993, but the manager was sent packing by the club following their Uefa Cup exit against Casino Salzburg, despite leading the league at the time. Pedro Estêvão takes up the tale: “The manager was highly regarded by the players and the fans, so the players decided to stage a dinner in honour of the departing manager. On his way home, however, Serhiy suffered a horrible car crash that left him paralysed from the waist down. I still get a lump in the throat when I remember the television footage of him frantically pursuing his rehabilitation and vowing that he would don the Sporting jersey on the pitch once again someday.” The accident fractured Scherbakov’s skull and his spinal column in three places, although The Resident newspaper reported that he had been “over the legal alcohol limit” at the time. Scherbakov, according to Alexei Berezovoi, “has undergone a series of operations and is still working on his health. He is working with several football-related charities, such as the Federation of Football that unites football lovers that have cerebral paralysis. He lives in Moscow.” For thousands more questions and answers take a trip through the Knowledge archive. “Following the revolution that a man and his wife named their child ‘Lanesra’, this being “Arsenal” backwards, what club names are there which, if reversed, would spell names more conventionally given to newborns?” ponders Justin Horton. “If as it looks likely Aston Villa are relegated and Nottingham Forest aren’t promoted will this be the first time two clubs that have won the European Cup will meet outside of the top tier of their nation’s league?” asks Martin McGread. “Last month my club Palmeiras won the Brazilian Cup by beating Santos on a penalty shoot-out. The fifth and last to try himself was the goalkeeper Fernando Prass, who had never taken a single penalty before,” writes Claudio Kristeller. This fact brought me a few questions, and I wonder if could you help me answering them: 1. Is he the first goalkeeper to score a title-clinching penalty? 2. Is there another player that scored a title-clinching penalty with his first ever shot? 3. Being 37 years and 146 days old then, is he the oldest player (either keeper or not) to take his first ever penalty?” Knut Strand writes: “I was wondering if there has been any two footballers who’s met as players, managers and where one is playing and the other is managing and the other way around. So four different scenarios. This will require someone retiring, managing and then playing again, I think - or some kind of player-manager role of course.” “I’m a Spurs fan, this year it’ll be 25 years since we last won the FA Cup and we’ve not been in the final since, although we’ve managed to lose six semi finals since (to Everton, Newcastle, Portsmouth, Chelsea and worst of all Arsenal. Twice),” writes Dave Adams. “Have any other teams had more consecutive defeats in the semis they’ve played for a particular competition?” “I was reading an article and noticed that Michael Bridges had won the Championship three times with the same team - Sunderland in 96, 99 and 05. I was wondering, has anyone else done the same?” wonders Steve Trafford. “Whilst discussing this with some friends and pondering other promotion-based trivia, we realised that Kevin Philips has been promoted from the Championship 5 times with 5 different teams - Sunderland 99, West Brom 08, Birmingham 09, Palace 13 and Leicester 14. Has anyone else achieved this amazing feat?” “On 23 November 1991, Aberdeen and Scotland defender Brian Irvine conceded a penalty, then ended up saving the resultant penalty as goalkeeper,” notes Andrew Wilson. “ Is this a unique event in football history, I wonder?” “Oxford United beating Swansea on the weekend was something of a giant-killing, with Swansea as the giant,” writes Simon Jones. “Back in 1999 Swansea where the minnows knocking out the ‘giant’ West Ham. Are there any bigger examples of teams going from giant killers to losing giants (for example taking relative league positions into account over the two fixtures)? Also - if the Oxford v Swansea fixture had taken place back in the mists of time of my teenage years, Oxford would surely have been the “giant”. Has it ever happened that a giant killer has gone on to be the giant killed by the same team they beat?” Send your questions and answers to knowledge@ or get in touch via Twitter @TheKnowledge_GU 