Lucas Pérez scored twice to help Arsenal to a 4-0 win at Nottingham Forest, Liverpool romped to a 3-0 victory at Derby and Norwich surprised Everton 
 There’s been an goal in the early stages of extra time between Leicester and Chelsea. Find out more with Barry Glendenning here.  Thanks for all your emails and tweets tonight. And also for correctly noticing that there are SIX teams (Aberdeen, Dundee, Dundee United, Greenock Morton, Queen of the South and Queen’s Park) with a double ‘e’ in their name.  “What about Queen’s Celtic?” suggests Philip Cornwall, and 1,056 others. Bye! Updated
 Arsenal seal their win with another fine goal: Oxlade-Chamberlain dummies the ball, and then receives a fine through ball from Lucas Perez – what a game the Spaniard has had – before the England international hits a left-footed finish into the bottom corner. Updated
 In Europe, Milan have extended their lead over Lazio to 2-0 thanks to a Niang penalty. PSG, meanwhile are 3-0 up over Dijon, with Cavani and Lucas Moura adding to the French champions’ tally. Rangers’ match with Queen of the South has finished 5-0, with Waghorn bagging a hat-trick, that’s his 37th goal in 43 appearances for the Glasgow club. They are through to the semi-finals of the League Cup in Scotland.  Updated
 There’s been a red card in the Leicester - Chelsea match, with the scores at 2-2, as the match heads for extra time. Find out more with Barry Glendenning.  
 Blackburn concede another late goal, just as they did at Elland Road last week! Woods bundles one of the worst finishes of all time just over the line.  Updated
 Glenn Murray hooks the ball across the six yard box, and Hemed is there to stab it in. All hands on deck now for 10-man Reading, who have five minutes to cling on for.  
 After Dan Gosling had given Bournemouth the lead, Danish striker Makienok again pops up with five minutes to go. It looks as though we’re heading into extra-time in this one! 
 What a goal! Goodison Park falls silent, as Jacob Murphy turns nicely on the edge of the area, gets some space on his left foot and curls his effort into the top corner, glancing on the underside of the bar, leaving Stekelenburg completely helpless. The Dutchman could only watch as it sailed past him. Shock result on the cards.  Everton haven’t had a goal threat tonight, and started without a striker, although Arouna Koné is on the bench. Strange decision from Koeman. No sign of Oumar Niasse, who joined the club for £13.5m in January. He scored in midweek for the club’s U23s, but not even on the bench tonight. Updated
 Great goal from the Spaniard, holding off the considerable figure of Matt Mills, rounding the Nottingham Forest keeper and slotting in. There’s a few afters with Mills but he’s up on his feet and off to celebrate with the jubilant Gooners in the stands. Lovely stuff. Updated
 Quick as a flash, Don Kavanagh with the answer. “Dundee; Dundee Utd; Greenock Morton; Queen of the South; Queen’s Park.” Although isn’t it six? Aberdeen? Updated
 I haven’t mentioned Leeds v Blackburn yet, and that’s because it’s been an absolutely dire match at Elland Road, where there are just 8,000 people watching. Leeds beat Rovers 2-1 in a Championship match exactly a week ago.  Updated
 “Evening Michael,” emails Simon McMahon. “As well as Rangers v Queen of the South, there’s also Morton v Dundee United in the Scottish League Cup quarter finals [Currently 2-1 to Morton]. An an old quiz question for you - can you name the five Scottish clubs that have a double ‘e’ in their name?” Send your answers to michael.butler@ or tweet @michaelbutler18. 
 Two goals in two minutes as Rangers make it 3-0 at Ibrox through Martyn Waghorn, the man involved in that training ground altercation. Rangers had previously made it 2-0 through Andy Halligan.  
 Despite Reading being a man down, Jaap Stam’s side have extended their lead through the excellent John Swift, who curls a beauty into the top corner, a near-identical strike of the goal he scored against Barnsley at the weekend.  Updated
 Grabban sends Maxwell the wrong way from 12 yards, after Preston were penalised for a handball – Gradel’s free-kick struck an arm en route to goal. Two minutes later, Gradel lines up another free-kick and hits the bar! Still 1-1.  Updated
 The Belgian races behind the Derby defence, and despite shooting from a tight angle, squeezes his shot past Mitchell and into the roof of the net. Liverpool have looked top drawer tonight. Updated
 Just for the record, here are the list of nations who have qualified for the women’s Euro 2017 next year. England beat Belgium 2-0 tonight, Wales drew 0-0 with Austria and miss out on qualification, whilst Scotland beat Iceland 2-1 away, but finished second behind tonight’s opponents in Group 1.  #WEURO2017#NED - hosts#GER - holders#AUT#BEL#DEN#ENG#FRA#ISL#ITA#NOR#RUS#SCO#ESP#SWE#SUIDraw 8 NovemberPlay-off#ROU v #POR 
 Firmino and Coutinho play a one-two on the edge of Derby’s box, and despite the presence of six County defenders, the Brazilian tiptoes through several challenges and calmly passes the ball into the corner. Class.  Updated
 Full-time in Spain, and Malaga have come from behind to beat Eibar 2-1. Sevilla v Real Betis kicks off in about eight minutes.  
 Piszczek’s first Bundesliga goal in two years. This is a quite remarkable performance from Dortmund, who apart from a 10 minute period at the start of the second half, have obliterated one of the best sides in the division, away from home. This is a Dortmund side that sold Gundogan and Mkhitaryan in the summer, and is missing Reus, Sahin, Schurrle, Durm, and Kagawa tonight. Frightening.  Updated
 “Strangely innocuous, in fact invisible, display by Lucas Pérez for Arsenal,” emails Charles Antaki. “There are times when even Elneny is further forward, but it’s hard to see what he’s bringing to the game. Is Sanogo available?” 
 Against the run of play, but Dortmund twice hit the home side on the counter-attack. Devastating play from Castro, who slices through the middle of Wolfsburg’s defence and cooly squares the ball across the six yard box for an easy finish at the back post for the Gabon striker. Not five minutes earlier, the obscenely talented Ousmane Dembélé scored a near identical goal, although the French teenager did look a tad offside when Castro provided another assist.  Updated
 Former Manchester United defender Tyler Blackett given his marching orders for a late slide tackle on Oliver Norwood, although replays show that he tried to pull out. Two minutes later Glenn Murray hits the bar for Brighton, Reading are going to have to hold on – they won on Saturday with 10 men, away at Barnsley.  Updated
 It had to be! The former Everton favourite races through on goal, slips, and the ball balloons up in the air, over Stekelenburg and into the net. It’s against the run of play, and Everton should have had a penalty awarded earlier, but the Goodison Park faithful applaud their former player. He was a popular player on Merseyside, not least for things like this Updated
 In Europe, Carlos Bacca has given Milan a 1-0 lead against Lazio, and PSG have taken a 1-0 lead through an own goal from Dijon’s Adam Lang.  
 Jason Holt taps in from close range, his first of the season. Queen of the South have looked good though so far tonight, they are riding high in the Championship, and have won the last seven matches.  
 After a corner causes chaos in Derby’s box, Liverpool’s centre-back adjusts his body well and hooks the ball into the bottom corner to the give the Reds the lead.  @michaelbutler18 Liverpool fan here. Terrified that Darren Bent will hit us again with that beach ball number https://t.co/95YDcuCEMi Updated
 Two goals in three minutes puts Newcastle in control at St James’ Park, Yoan Gouffran with an excellent strike from the edge of the box, after Matt Ritchie’s opener, a wonderful controlled curling effort, after a lovely one-two undid the Wolves defence. Wolves beat Newcastle just four days ago, remember.  
 Having piled on the pressure since half-time, Wolfsburg deservedly pull one back, after Didavi steals in at the near post to prod a neat finish after a wondrous cross from their new signing Blaszczykowski. Wolfsburg had an effort cleared off the line, they are making a game of it.  
 A near carbon copy of the Swiss midfielder’s goal at the weekend! Xhaka hits in from all of 40 yards, it takes a slight deflection, but continues to fly towards the top corner Stojkovic, in Forest’s goal, should do better, but can only get a weak hand to it, and the ball drops into the net. No ‘hush’ celebration this time. Updated
 12 min: The City Ground rises to applaud Brian Clough, 12 years after his death. It’s a great atmosphere in Nottingham, “You’ve only come to see the Arsenal” sing the visiting fans. “Champions of Europe - you’ll never sing that” reply the Forest faithful.  Arsenal are lucky to still be level, after Bendtner pressured Gabriel into a mistake at the back, before the Dane squared the ball to Kasami, who sliced wide from the edge of the box. With Martinez out of position in the Arsenal goal, it was easier to score. Updated
 Full-time in Ligue 1’s early game, and Toulouse have won 2-1 away at Lille, with former Sunderland striker Ola Toivonen getting both goals for the visitors.  
 The first EFL Cup goal of the night – the Danish striker Simon Makienok, on a one-year loan deal from Italian Serie A side Palermo, finds some space at the back post and makes no mistake. Updated
 Carney cuts inside on her right foot, feinting to shoot, before smashing a deflected strike past the Belgium goalkeeper. It’s now finished there, so a 2-0 win for the Lionesses, they top Group 7.  Karen Carney scores England's 2nd goal. Video: BBC, UEFA EURO 2017 #WEURO2017 #womensfootball #EURO2017 #Lionesses pic.twitter.com/GTHGlKh9rH Updated
 Peeeeeep! The EFL Cup ties are underway. Keep an eye out for Bournemouth’s Tyrone Mings, who is making his first appearance since the beginning of last season. Mings became the Cherries’ record signing last June, but was ruled out for the season with an anterior cruciate ligament injury on the first day of the season against Leicester.  
 Very strong Liverpool team out tonight: Coutinho, Origi and Firmino forming a potent front three against a Derby side that has struggled so far this season in the Championship. With no European football this season, it’s obvious that Klopp are targeting Cup glory, with the carrot of a Europa League spot at stake for the EFL Cup winners, that’s no surprise. 1 - Liverpool have been eliminated from just one of their last 13 League Cup ties against lower league opposition. Bullies. 
 No Joey Barton of course for Rangers tonight, after the Englishman was suspended for three weeks by the Glasgow club. The Guardian’s Donald McRae sat down with Barton, who is also under investigation for allegedly breaking betting rules. 
 Everton v Norwich Everton: Stekelenburg, Coleman, Holgate, Ashley Williams, Funes Mori, Cleverley, Gana, Lennon, Barkley, Valencia, Deulofeu. Subs: Robles, Jagielka, Kone, Mirallas, Bolasie, Barry, Oviedo. Norwich: Ruddy, Whittaker, Bennett, Bassong, Brady, Thompson, Mulumbu, Josh Murphy, Naismith, Pritchard, Oliveira. Subs: Jones, Canos, Lafferty, Turner, Morris, Godfrey, Grant. Nottm Forest v Arsenal  Nottm Forest: Stojkovic, Pereira, Mancienne, Mills, Lichaj, Cohen, Dumitru, Lansbury, Kasami, Osborn, Bendtner. Subs: Fox, Carayol, Pereira Lica, Hobbs, Grant, Vellios, Smith. Arsenal: Martinez, Maitland-Niles, Holding, Gabriel, Gibbs, Xhaka, Elneny, Oxlade-Chamberlain, Reine-Adelaide, Akpom, Lucas Perez. Subs: Bielik, Zelalem, Da Silva, Mavididi, Macey, Sheaf, Willock.  Leeds v Blackburn Leeds: Silvestri, Coyle, Bartley, Cooper, Taylor, O’Kane, Phillips, Vieira, Roofe, Antonsson, Mowatt. Subs: Green, Ayling, Wood, Dallas, Grimes, Hernandez, Denton. Blackburn: Raya, Lowe, Wharton, Lenihan, Hendrie, Feeney, Byrne, Akpan, Samuelsen, Gallagher, Bennett. Subs: Steele, Marshall, Emnes, Guthrie, Nyambe, Mahoney, Conway.  Brighton v Reading Brighton: Maenpaa, Hunt, Hunemeier, Goldson, Pocognoli, Norwood, Sidwell, Ince, Manu, Baldock, Murray. Subs: Bong, Dunk, Kayal, Skalak, Hemed, Murphy, Ankergren. Reading: Jaakkola, Watson, Liam Moore, Blackett, Obita, Kelly, Swift, Samuel, Quinn, Harriott, Mendes. Subs: Gunter, Evans, Beerens, Wieser, Gravenberch, Stuart Moore.  Rangers v Queen of South Rangers: Gilks, Tavernier, Hill, Wilson, Hodson, Holt, Halliday, Windass, O’Halloran, Waghorn, Forrester. Subs: Crooks, Foderingham, Garner, Miller, McKay, Kranjcar, Senderos. Queen of South: Robinson, Hamill, Dowie, Brownlie, Marshall, Anderson, Millar, Hilson, Jacobs, Dobbie, Lyle. Subs: Dykes, Higgins, Rigg, Pickard, Moxon, Atkinson, Brotherston.  
 Nikita Parris scores her third England goal in just her third England appearance, heading the ball home – all 5ft4in of her! Remember England are already qualified for Euro 2017, but will finish top of their group with a win here. Updated
 Dortmund are on fire! After disposing of Darmstadt 6-0 on Saturday, Dortmund are already 2-0 away in Lower Saxony – Aubameyang latching onto a clever backheel from Raphael Guerreiro, beating his man and finishing cooly in the the corner. The man is a class act. Guerreiro had earlier given Dortmund the lead with a deflected effort.  Nice goal by #aubameyang great player pace skill goals he got the lot #nufc #borussiadortmund https://t.co/hoLU9k1x5C Updated
 More narrative, as if you needed it.  Current Forest men @lansburyhenri and @bendtnerb52 will hope to get one over on former #NFFC loanee @aaronramsey’s @Arsenal this evening. pic.twitter.com/Btii4wWpDM 
 Nottingham Forest will hold a 12th-minute tribute to Brian Clough in their match against Arsenal tonight – it is 12 years since the great man died. Derby County will also hold a minute’s silence in memory of club stalwart, Gordon Guthrie MBE, who served as a player, a club physiotherapist/trainer, and kit manager serving over a dozen managers, including Brian Clough. He has a stand named after him at the iPro stadium. GORDON GUTHRIE: #DCFC will hold a minute's silence in memory of Gordon Guthrie tonight: https://t.co/MrEQPRgL2c #DCFCvLFC #dcfcfans pic.twitter.com/sUpmx1n0aE 
 Derby v Liverpool Derby: Mitchell, Christie, Pearce, Keogh, Olsson, Baird, Johnson, Hughes, Butterfield, Weimann, Bent. Subs: Weale, Ince, Camara, Blackman, Lowe, Elsnik, Rawson. Liverpool: Karius, Clyne, Matip, Klavan, Moreno, Henderson, Coutinho, Lucas, Grujic, Firmino, Origi. Subs: Lovren, Milner, Mane, Mignolet, Can, Ings, Oviemuno Ejaria. AFC Bournemouth v Preston  AFC Bournemouth: Federici, Ake, Marc Wilson, Mings, Brad Smith, Gradel, Grabban, Gosling, Lewis Cook, Fraser, Afobe. Subs: Allsop, Hyndman, Mousset, Buckley. Preston: Maxwell, Huntington, Humphrey, Pearson, Wright, Cunningham, Davies, Welsh, Johnson, Pringle, Makienok. Subs: Clarke, Browne, Doyle, Hugill, Smith, Robinson, Hudson. Swindon v Bristol Rovers  Swindon: Vigouroux, Branco, Thompson, Jones, Furlong, Murray, Brophy, Kasim, Thomas, Obika, Delfouneso. Subs: Ormonde-Ottewill, Rodgers, Goddard, Henry, Smith, Hylton, Norris. Bristol Rovers: Roos, Leadbitter, Lockyer, James Clarke, Brown, Sinclair, Ollie Clarke, Lines, Bodin, Gaffney, Taylor. Subs: Mildenhall, Hartley, Harrison, Easter, Moore, Boateng, Colkett.  Newcastle v Wolverhampton Newcastle: Darlow, Yedlin, Hanley, Clark, Lazaar, Shelvey, Colback, Ritchie, Diame, Gouffran, Murphy. Subs: Dummett, Lascelles, Hayden, Perez, Atsu, Woodman, Mitrovic. Wolverhampton: Lonergan, Borthwick-Jackson, Hause, Iorfa, Silvio, Saville, Joao Teixeira, Coady, Wallace, Gladon, Mason. Subs: Ikeme, Doherty, Batth, John, Price, Oniangue, Bodvarsson.  
 Half-time scores in the women’s Euro 2017 qualifiers, involving some of the home nations. England and Scotland have already qualified for the finals in Holland next year, and England will cement top spot in Group 7 if they draw with their nearest rivals Belgium. 0-0 in that one at the moment. Scotland are guaranteed one of the six best runners-up spots, they are second in Group 1, behind Iceland. 1-1 currently in Reykjavik. Half-time in the last #WEURO2017 qualifiersAs it standsQualified: Denmark, Italy, Austria, RussiaPlay-off: Romania, FinlandOut: Portugal pic.twitter.com/18Y2vC34rB 
 Of course, if you’re a more monogamous type, you can always head over to our Leicester City v Chelsea MBM. Barry Glendenning is at the helm for that one.  
 Michael will be here shortly. In the meantime, here’s Daniel Taylor on Nottingham Forest’s impressive youth policy: It is probably a reflection of Nottingham Forest’s difficulties in the modern era that when they renew acquaintances with Arsenal on Tuesday it will be the first time in the 21st century they have encountered the club who wear the same colours because it was Forest, 130 years ago, who donated a red strip to help set them up. The last occasion the two sides met was in January 1999 when Ron Atkinson had just been appointed as Forest’s manager and infamously began his short, undistinguished spell more like Rowan Atkinson by climbing into the wrong dugout. Forest, with the fingers of relegation closing round their necks, lost 1-0 and it was their next home game when they played in a nine-goal thriller against Manchester United that is still talked about on the banks of the Trent. Unfortunately for Forest, they scored only one of the goals. Today, the club are 13th in English football’s second tier, exactly the position where Brian Clough inherited them in 1975. It is the 12th anniversary of Clough’s death and in the 12th minute of their EFL Cup tie against Arsenal a tribute is planned for the man who led Forest – “the most unprogressive club in the country” as one of their own committee members described them – to promotion, a league title, two European Cups, four League Cups and a place in football where they could beat Barcelona in the European Super Cup yet be clapped out of Camp Nou by the Catalan supporters. Read the full article here. 