 It was clear within a couple of weeks I’d misjudged them but it took until the Liverpool-Manchester City double-header in February before I felt they would go all the way to the title. The way I’m looking at it is this: the fact that journalists near-unanimously predicted Leicester’s relegation made their subsequent success even more glorious. I’m thus thrilled to have played a part in their triumph. Plus, I was right about Aston Villa, so that’s something. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Leicester, Norwich and Aston Villa I didn’t predict Leicester to go down (I went for Norwich, Sunderland and, ahem, West Ham) but I figured they’d fall short of top spot by 30 points, give or take lots. My main concern was for central midfield, where I feared Esteban Cambiasso’s departure would leave a vacuum. Danny Drinkwater rose to the challenge better than expected, helped, of course, by N’Golo Kanté, who hadn’t yet signed when the predictions were made. It was probably after the José Mourinho-slaying win over Chelsea that I became convinced things had definitively changed for the better, and February’s win at Manchester City followed by the series of 1-0 victories in March suggested they would not succumb to nerves. Predicted champions Arsenal Predicted bottom three West Ham, Sunderland and Norwich When Leicester could win the league? Probably when Robert Huth looped in their third at Manchester City, banishing any thoughts of the hosts mounting a real comeback. But when Leicester would win the title? When I saw them first-hand at Selhurst Park just before the international break in March, squeezing out yet another 1-0 success. There was something relentless about them that day: they looked like a tightly-knit and expertly-drilled collective who had forgotten how to lose. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Leicester, Watford and Bournemouth Not content with tipping the new Premier League champions for relegation last summer, I added the following about their newly-appointed manager, who had lost his job with Greece after defeat by the Faroe Islands: “How Claudio Ranieri continues to land good jobs is a mystery.” I’ll get my coat. Genuinely, it has been a delight to see so many preconceived ideas about the Premier League shattered by a true gent and worthy champion. Leicester resembled title-winning material at Manchester City on 6 February but it was the close, scrappy win at Crystal Palace on 19 March when belief took hold. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Norwich, Leicester and Watford It was at a little before 10pm on Wednesday 13 January, and it was when Huth looped a header past Hugo Lloris to set Leicester on their way to the 1-0 win at Tottenham. I remember just how agitated Mauricio Pochettino had been on the touchline and it was plain the Spurs manager recognised it as a pivotal game. I also remember how Jan Vertonghen grumbled about Leicester’s “kick long-and-run” approach. “When they don’t have the ball, they all defend,” the defender added. “But it works for them.” It was one thing to know how Leicester might play – and quite another to stop them. This was a match that could have gone either way. Leicester made it go theirs. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Leicester, Sunderland and Norwich Forty-eight minutes have gone when Riyad Mahrez’s shimmering talent wobbles the heads of Nicolás Otamendi, Martín Demichelis and Aleksandar Kolarov. The Algeria international leaves all behind with some quicksilver footwork, then bangs an emphatic finish past Joe Hart. Leicester end the game hammering Manchester City 3-1 on their own patch. They possess a five-point lead. There are 15 games left. And this observer is now a believer. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Watford, Leicester and Newcastle I tipped Leicester to go down. Changing the manager who’d led the revival last season seemed risky. I still thought they’d fade and finish fourth or fifth right up until 6 February when they beat Manchester City at the Etihad, a performance of real craft, skill and heart. Mahrez’s brilliant goal felt like a moment of pre-coronation. I’m taking no chances now: Leicester are definitely going to win the Champions League. Predicted champions Manchester City Predicted bottom three Watford, Norwich, Leicester It began to dawn on me that Leicester probably weren’t going to regret replacing Nigel Pearson with Ranieri when I found myself writing they had played chests-out football after beating West Ham 2-1 in their second game. Jamie Vardy and Mahrez were superb, Shinji Okazaki looked like a shrewd signing and they stood firm when West Ham, who had just won at Arsenal, pulled one back early in the second half. Not that I had them down as title contenders then. The conclusion I drew was that they could challenge for a place in the top half – and I was adjusting that prediction after they beat Chelsea and got Mourinho the sack in December. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Norwich, Leicester, Sunderland Would it sound awfully weaselly to say I wondered at the time if this prediction might be the one I came to regret? Yes, almost certainly. The irony is nobody in Leicester took issue at the time (plenty, I suspect, agreed) but it was obvious early on it was going to pan out very differently. By January I was apologising on BBC Radio Leicester. The 3-1 win at Manchester City in February was confirmation this was the best team in England and, strangely, I was further convinced by a 2-2 draw at home to West Brom at the start of March. That was a setback but the team looked strong and the crowd never seemed edgy in a way that might transmit to the players. Predicted champions Manchester City Predicted bottom three Sunderland, Watford and Leicester Pre-season predictions have never been my forte and it’s rarely good to be reminded of them but this season I did write “Claudio Ranieri may just exceed expectations”. Prescient or what? Although to put it in context the previous sentence spoke of Leicester possibly being in the relegation mix (I tipped Bournemouth, Norwich and Watford for the Championship). Conviction that Leicester could actually win it came on Sunday 10 April when they won 2-0 at Sunderland and Vardy scored twice. Predicted champions Arsenal Predicted bottom three Norwich, Bournemouth and Watford I realised I had misjudged Leicester quite early on, when they took points from West Ham and Tottenham then staged impressive comebacks against Aston Villa and Stoke. But only in February was I convinced they were genuine title contenders, after peerless performances against Liverpool and Manchester City and the narrowest of defeats at Arsenal. Predicted champions Chelsea Predicted bottom three Leicester, Bournemouth and Watford 