 Saint-Étienne loves making history. Beyond Hervé Revelli, Michel Platini and Les Verts’ European Cup conquests of the 1970s, this atmospheric corner of the Loire Valley has carved itself a reputation in internationals. Eighteen years after Argentina ousted England from the World Cup on penalties in the last knockout tie here, Poland beat Switzerland in the same manner to become the first team in Euro 2016’s quarter-finals. Granit Xhaka’s sliced spot-kick, the only one of 10 missed, proved decisive in a game which the Swiss dominated the closing stages, inspired by Xherdan Shaqiri. “Granit can cope with it,” said the game’s outstanding player. “I hope that in the last 16 in the World Cup [in 2018] he’ll score, and I’m sure he will.” The coach Vladimir Petkovic, who said he was “very sorry” for Xhaka, applauded his side, who “gave everything”. If Adam Nawalka, the Poland coach, felt any relief after his team withstood a near onslaught from Switzerland as the second half – and extra time – progressed, he hid it well. “It was very difficult,” he admitted, “but we were prepared for that. The Swiss team is a world-class side.” Certainly it was hard to fault Nawalka’s preparation for the shootout. Poland had practised penalties this week, and had already formulated the names and order of the kickers. Nawalka said he chose to “refresh the list” after extra time but that “the players confirmed they were ready to take the penalties”. This was a game of sharply contrasting halves. Both sides had progressed from the group stage of this competition for the first time but there was little even about the opening exchanges. The tone was set inside 30 seconds, when Arkadiusz Milik scooped a glorious opportunity over an unguarded net for Poland after a horrible mix-up between Yann Sommer and Johan Djourou. The busy Milik quickly had a clutch of other chances – he was most culpable when slashing a shot wide at the far post after Blaszczykowski found him – and there were animated discussions on the pitch between various Swiss players after an opening 20 minutes in which Poland totally dominated. Grzegorz Krychowiak and Kamil Grosicki also passed up inviting openings. Switzerland created fleeting moments of their own, and Fabian Schär headed one clear chance straight at Lukasz Fabianski. The problem was that every time they lost the ball in the opposition half, they were struggling to contain a counterattack seconds later. One of those fast breaks finally undid Switzerland as the half entered its closing stages. Fabianski gathered a corner and threw out to Grosicki, who advanced half the length of the pitch on the left side before crossing. Milik smartly dummied and Blaszczykowski was in plenty of space at the back post to slot under Sommer. There was a strong Swiss reaction in the immediate aftermath of the interval, led by Shaqiri, who saw Fabianski push away his left-foot drive, though Robert Lewandowski – largely occupying a slightly deeper role behind Milik – did manage to land a first shot on target of the tournament, three and a half games in, which Sommer fielded neatly. Nawalka shut down any criticism of his star after the match. “He’s doing great work,” he insisted. “In history there are some star players who when they didn’t score, didn’t care about the results. That’s not the case here. He can physically and mentally compete in every match.” Switzerland had their own goalscoring challenges, with just two in their three group games, and Petkovic had added two more strikers to his original one by the 70th minute, with Breel Embolo and Eren Derdiyok joining Haris Seferovic. Petkovic’s lottery almost paid dividends in the 79th minute but while Seferovic’s drive was as cleanly struck as could be, it flew back off the crossbar after beating Fabianski. It looked as if time was running out but then Shaqiri produced a moment of real magic. The Stoke midfielder pirouetted in mid-air and sent a breathtaking bicycle kick into the corner of Fabianski’s goal, celebrating with an only marginally less acrobatic somersault. Extra time began tentatively but that changed in the second period as the Swiss found an extra gear, forcing a succession of corners, with Shaqiri again prompting, setting up Derdiyok, but Fabianski reacted sharply to tip away his header. It proved vital, as Poland held on to find a way through. 