• Manchester City goalkeeper completes season-long loan to Italian club• ‘The coach wants humility and ambition. I like that. That’s how I want to be’ 
 Joe Hart has spoken of his excitement after joining Torino on a season-long loan from Manchester City – calling the move a sudden turning point in his career. The 29-year-old left the England training camp on Tuesday to finalise terms and undergo a medical, and Torino confirmed the deal was in place on Wednesday. The move should ensure regular action for Hart after he slipped further down the pecking order at the Etihad Stadium following the signing of Claudio Bravo from Barcelona. Hart told Torino’s website: “Torino’s offer came at the right moment for me, in the right manner, and I’m very excited to test myself in an important and beautiful league such as Serie A. “Everyone knows the history of goalkeepers in Italy, and I’m sure I can learn in Torino. That’s why I accepted President Cairo’s proposal. “I already know [assistant manager] Attilio Lombardo, we won a lot working together in Manchester and I hope to experience the same success this year. The coach here wants humility and ambition. I like that. That’s how I want to be.” Urbano Cairo, the Torino president, said the transfer “makes us proud, and demonstrates our willingness to build a more competitive team … It’s not only his talent – Hart also brings with him humility and enthusiasm.” With Pep Guardiola making clear his preference for a ball-playing keeper, Willy Caballero was preferred to Hart for the opening three Premier League matches of the season by the new manager, with the arrival of Bravo then in effect pushing Hart down to third place. Torino emerged as his most likely destination after Everton and Sevilla distanced themselves from the player and Sunderland’s reported interest was not reciprocated. Hart had been at City 10 years and been at the centre of all their success in recent seasons, including the Premier League title wins of 2012 and 2014. 