 José Mourinho was so enamoured of the surface here he declared: “If you don’t play on it, go home.” So to witness this limp surrender from Manchester United did not please the manager. The goalless draw the contest was heading for was poor enough. But then Tonny Vilhena pulled the trigger 12 minutes from time and Feyenoord were ahead, though there was an offside during the buildup. What it means is United suffered a second defeat within six days. Just as in the first half of Saturday’s derby, Mourinho’s team were toothless and disjointed throughout and there was scant prospect of them fashioning an equaliser. Even more worrying for the manager is that his side at least improved in the second half of that 2-1 defeat by Manchester City but not here. This was hardly the inspiring, winning start to the Europa League quest Mourinho talked up beforehand. Instead, United fly home straight after this near-debacle with zero points and suddenly Sunday’s trip to Watford has a new complexion. For this opening Group A fixture eight changes were made. Only David de Gea, Paul Pogba and Eric Bailly were retained as Chris Smalling, Matteo Darmian, Marcus Rashford, Morgan Schneiderlin and Marcos Rojo all made a first start under Mourinho. What the XI sent out found was a feverish De Kuip that gave a lovely late summer’s eve a cauldron-like atmosphere to play in. United, though, did more defending than the actual roving forward and attacking they would have wished during the opening half – a pattern that continued after the break. Instead, Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s men pinned United back. Dirk Kuyt had a cross blocked by Darmian as the first corner was conceded. Later, Steven Berghuis cut in from the right to have a left-footed curler saved by De Gea. Mourinho arranged his team in a loose 4-2-3-1 in which Pogba was the nominal No10. This was the first time the world record signing had been pushed forward to have a free role. Since the transfer from Juventus Pogba’s offering has been underwhelming, so here was a chance to lead in the manner demanded for that outlay. As the 30-minute mark neared there had been some arm-waving, one aimless header, a free-kick hit straight at Brad Jones and not much else. United were stilted, too. Anything approaching decent tended to occur along the left, where Anthony Martial’s ability allowed him to fracture the defence. The France international came closest for United when drifting into a more central position. His shot beat Jones but not the former Liverpool goalkeeper’s left post. Of United’s centre-forward for the night, Mourinho had said: “I don’t want to put any pressure on Rashford. Of course, to win we need to score goals and tonight he’s the striker. Hopefully he can deliver for us, but no pressure.” The disjointed shape of United’s play meant Rashford was close to a spectator until being hauled off in the second half. There were a couple of trademark dribbles and dummies – with varying success – but when required to finish a rare fluid United move he was absent. Here, Martial, again in-field, found Rojo and the left-back put in a cross the curved viciously but had no team-mate to stab home. The opening half ended with two Feyenoord corners and a scare for United. First, Ander Herrera and Schneiderlin were beaten to 50-50s. Then Terence Kongolo rounded Darmian with ease along the left. In came the ball to Jens Toornstra and his effort should have tested De Gea. When Jesús Gil Manzano blew for the break Mourinho ran down the tunnel to prepare stern words for a group who, on the whole, had been sleepwalking. Unfortunately for the manager, players and travelling fans, the dour stuff continued in the second half and Feyenoord again seemed most likely to register. Karim El Ahmadi, a midfielder who puts the niggle-factor into his side, banged a shot at goal that missed narrowly to De Gea’s right. At the other end Rashford had a burst that asked the question of Van Bronckhorst’s team but the material result was nil. At last Pogba gave a glimpse of his talents by skating past a couple of Feyenoord players before pulling a 25-yarder wide. By the 63rd minute Mourinho had seen enough and made a triple substitution. Off came Rashford, Martial and Juan Mata and on came Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Memphis Depay and Ashley Young. Ibrahimovic, once of Ajax, and Depay, formerly of PSV Eindhoven, were booed whenever the ball came near them. There were pantomime jeers, too, when Depay blasted the ball over. The presence of Smalling up front in the closing minutes, as Mourinho’s side desperately tried to scramble an equalising goal, may also bring scorn from all non-United followers. So, too, this result and its manner. 