 Jonathan Howcroft That’s all from me for tonight, thank you for your company. Sunday’s second semi-final will be covered in a similar way, Richard Parkin should be on deck for that barn burner. Then we’re onto the granny, next Sunday at 4pm AEST, live from Adelaide Oval.  Updated
 What a night for Adelaide United. They dominated from the off, created chances throughout and in the second half put Melbourne City to the sword. Eugene Galekovic has told Fox Sports his team “destroyed” their opponents and his bullish opinion is well founded. City couldn’t handle Adelaide’s pressing to retain or recycle possession often enough. The intricacy of United’s front four was too much for the visiting defence, especially with the bolting Goodwin to contend with too. Fornaroli can rarely have had less of an impact in a match which is testament to the performances of McGowan and La Rocca. In every facet of the game from the coaching strategies down, Adelaide United proved superior. Bruce Djite deserves the headlines for his superb opener but, as it has been all season for the Reds, it was a team effort that saw them through tonight. In this form they will be hard to back against, regardless of their opponents in the grand final. And they've done it! @AdelaideUnited are into the GF with 4-1 win over @MelbourneCity! #ADLvMCY #ALFinals https://t.co/dp3kBYVZob Updated
 That’s the final kick of the game with Delovski blowing the final whistle to cue triumphant celebrations for Adelaide United. Updated
 Icing on the cake. Djite turns provider this time and his looped cross from the left beats the City defence and Sanchez side-foots through Sorensen’s legs to seal a memorable night for Adelaide United. 
 90+2 min: Elsey the incoming sub, I should point out.  So, we now know next week’s grand final will be in Adelaide, we just don’t know who United will be facing. 
 90 min: Put a fork in this, City are done. Clisby has limped off injured so they’re down to ten men. Adelaide are rampant and big Bruce is hunting his hat-trick.  Mauk, in odd coloured boots (both in their mismatched nature and their oddness - pink and yellow) subbed off after a mighty shift. 
 Game over! Corner from Carrusca and it somehow finds its way to the middle of the six yard box where McGowan is on hand to guide it with his instep beyond Sorensen. Good finish, poor defending.  Updated
 87 min: Lovely passing down Adelaide’s right inside, outside, behind the fullback and it takes a last ditch challenge from Clisby to deny Sanchez. Clisby hurt himself in that clearance. Cramp? Hammy? Either way it’s a corner to Adelaide and a good header from Sanchez almost loops in but Marino heads it clear off the line.  
 85 min: The lively Kamau is replaced by Pablo Sanchez. This contributes to a number of stoppages that have taken the sting out of the game, much to the home side’s benefit.  
 83 min: The ball keeps bouncing City’s way in Adelaide territory but they can’t fashion clear chances from it. Mooy’s corner finds Malik, who slips, then Fitzgerald tries an optimistic punt from range.  The atmosphere is less jubilant now, much more tense, but the home side are still in the box seat. 
 81 min: Both midfields have gone missing and the ball is pinging from one forward third to the other.  Important substitutions coming up. Elrich returning for Goodwin and Melling coming on for Kisnorbo. That will mean a reshuffle for City, presumably to a back three.  Elrich immediately into the fray with a brave far post header to deny Fitzgerald a chance. Mooy again instrumental in the build up. 
 78 min: Mooy is everywhere at the moment. His pass to Formaroli feeds the striker into the box but his twists and turns can’t create space. The 50:50s falling to City now, the second balls and mishit passes landing their way. Not only to cpaitalise on some rare momentum though.  
 76 min: Belief for City and it shows in Mooy’s gorgeous pass to Marino but the youngster can’t beat the first defender with his shot. Adelaide whiplash down the other end and Goodwin hits a shot as hard as a ball can ever conceivably have been hit. It thunders just over the bar though and out for a corner.  
 74 min: A-Grade commentator’s curse there. City with a decent spell of possession down their right, the ball finds Fitzgerald with half a yard of space on the edge of the box and he makes no mistake. That makes the final 15-minutes interesting. Fitzgerald picked up the only goal for @MelbourneCity and what a beautiful strike it was #ADLvMCY #4-1 #ALFinals https://t.co/QpUQjJF2FC Updated
 Hang on a minute! Fitzgerald grabs one back for City with a lovely stroked finish into the corner of Galekovic’s net.  Updated
 71 min: Adelaide just stroking the ball around their manor now, showing off their skills. A couple of passes go astray though but City can’t capitalise. United’s ability to regroup quickly is a major feature of their success. Such energy, commitment and discipline.  
 70 min: It’s hard not to wonder ‘what if?’ for City. Zullo, Franjic and Novillo would all improve this XI. The fullbacks in particular have been weak spots. Mauk the latest into the book, sixth of the match so far. 
 67 min: Caceres into the book for a desperate challenge on the counterattacking Mauk. Delovski, as expected, has had his work cut out tonight. He’s got the big decisions right though, no complaints over the penalty.  
 64 min: The home side are all over the visitors now. Isaias with a sumptuous lobbed pass over the advancing defensive line for Kamau but his shot is deflected for a corner. This could get ugly for City at a packed and delirious Coopers Stadium. 
 62 min: It would take something miraculous for City to pull this one back now. Van’t Schip is rolling the dice, Retre off for Connor Chapman and Garuccio replaced by Marino.  
 59 min: Quick free-kick to Kamau on the right hand side of the box and he has his legs taken from under him by Clisby. 
 58 min: Clear booking for La Rocca. Classic Fornaroli, waiting for the ball to feet with his back to goal, rolls the defender and the shirt-grab has the Red seeing yellow. Nothing comes of the free-kick though. City look a bit bereft of ideas going forward. They certainly miss Novillo’s power and unpredictability. 
 55 min: It’s worth repeating that Marc Marino is the only attacking option on City’s bench. Not much wriggle room for Van’t Schip.  Good deep corner from Mooy beats Galekovic but Malik can’t force it home at the far post. Another good corner finds Malik but he’s unprepared and the ball’s cleared. Can City keep up this pressure? 
 53 min: City pressing. Mooy taking the game on like Steph Curry with bodies bouncing off him in Adelaide’s half. Fitzgerald whips in a cross that reaches Fornaroli’s head but it runs behind for a goal kick.  
 50 min: Quality finish from the big man. Power and precision with the inside of his right foot. One of those using the momentum of the ball coming into him to aim beyond the far post and watch it drift in late.  Now, what can City muster against the stingiest defence in the league? Almost something immediately as a teasing Mooy free-kick just evades the outstretched boot of Kisnorbo.  What a start to the second half by @BDjite! #ALFinals pic.twitter.com/O1uRAlmljL Updated
 48 min: It took just three minutes of the second half for Adelaide to score the goal they so richly deserved. And it’s a beauty from Bruce Djite, curling the ball home from the edge of the box beyond Sorensen’s dive.  47' | GOALLL BRUUUUUUUUUUCE! @BDjite tears the house down with an absolute screamer from outside of the box! SCENES! #ADLvMCY Updated
 Second half underway and it almost starts with an audacious goal from Fornaroli. Adelaide fail to deal with a long ball, Galekovic is off his line but the Uruguayan’s instinctive finish rebounds off a defender.  
 That’s the first 45 minutes taken care of. Somehow Melbourne City reach the interval without conceding a goal. Adelaide United dominated the half and missed a string of good chances. It’s been a terrific, frenetic game so far, what will happen in the second half?  HT | #AUFC 0-0 @MelbourneCity. A very dominant display but we're unable to capitalise. #ADLvMCY #ALFinals pic.twitter.com/666yKCnnu0 Updated
 45 min + 2: Poor couple of phases by Mooy. First his corner from the left fails to clear the first defender, then he’s caught offside as the second ball heads his way. Two minutes of added time at the end of the half.  
 45 min: Ooooh! Djite wallops a left-footer from miles out and it only just misses the left-hand post. Sorensen was all over it but when you see a shot fly so fast around knee-high it sets the heart racing.  City just running the clock down a little as half time approaches.  Updated
 43 min: Adelaide’s attacking play has dropped off in the last few minutes. Kamau the latest to misplace a pass in the final third.  Highly open and entertaining this finals match. Adelaide on top. Melb City need to fix their left side of defence. #ADLvMCY 
 41 min: When City have the ball Adelaide get numbers into defence quickly. All 11 behind the ball as City’s centre halves look to pick a pass inside United’s half. After that initial manic press it’s a deep claustrophobic retreat. 