The former England star has 11 goals in 16 games and could be an MVP contender; Union and Impact look for home advantage; Dallas aim for 20 unbeaten 
 ‘Frank Lampard is the worst signing in MLS history.’ Remember that headline? I do. It was early in May and the 38-year-old midfielder, perennially injured, had not played a single minute for NYC FC in 2016. The vultures were out – and they decided Lampard was by far the biggest waste of money the league had ever seen. Updated worst signings in MLS history: 1) Frank Lampard, 2) Rafa Marquez. He made his season debut a few weeks later when he came on the 75th minute in the Hudson River derbv. The Red Bulls were winning 5-0 at Yankee Stadium on their way to a 7-0 thrashing, and what followed was 15 minutes of nothingness for the ex-England international, who was booed every time he touched the ball. Fast forward to September, and Lampard has had a ridiculous summer where he has scored 11 goals in 16 games, including a fantastic brace which helped his team beat DC United 3-2 last week. Can we add Lampard’s name in the MVP conversation? If the discussion centers around a player’s effectiveness, which propels his team to not only move up the table but also transforms them into legitimate contenders for the MLS Cup, just like Sebastian Giovinco does for Toronto or Bradley Wright-Phillips for the Red Bulls, then the answer is clear. LME With seven games left in the regular season, Montreal Impact find themselves in a precarious position. Currently sitting in fifth place on 37 points, the Canadian franchise are only seven points away from top spot and a victory this Saturday would move them level with their next opponents, Philadelphia. A loss, however, coupled with wins from New England and DC United would mean their playoff status would begin to look really shaky. On Wednesday, Mauro Biello’s team suffered a disastrous 4-1 loss against conference rivals, Orlando City, and after the game, the 44-year-old manager didn’t mince his words. “We’re not that good of a team,” Biello said. “We’re not. A good team is in first place and we need to understand that. We need to be a team that has to fight for their life to make the playoffs. And to me, that’s what has to change, is that mentality because at the end of the day, when our backs are against the wall, that’s when we show up.” Philadelphia, meanwhile, are also looking to get back to winning ways after their 3-0 loss to Chicago Fire last weekend. One more win for Philly and that will tie their club record for season victories, but for Jim Curtin, the most important thing is to climb up the table. “For me, it’s no secret,” he said during his weekly press conference. “You don’t want to just get in at the six or five spot because you put almost nine or ten months of work together to have, all the sudden, get thrown out there on a Wednesday and it can be over in a second on the road.” He’s not kidding. Historically, the importance of home advantage in the playoffs has proven to be extremely important. Last season, every team playing at home in the knockout round made it through the conference semi-finals. LME Another big game in the west on Sunday – but not as big as it might have been a month ago. The Rapids have slipped in recent weeks, and their 2-0 defeat by New England has left them winless in four, with just one victory in the last seven. As always with Colorado, it’s the goals for column where alarm bells are ringing. Twenty-eight goals from 26 games represents the second lowest in the conference – only San Jose have scored fewer. Jermaine Jones’ injury has been a blow, it’s true, but the Rapids need more from Kevin Doyle and Shkelzen Gashi, two well-paid designated players whose goalscoring output has been substandard. Dallas, on the other hand, just keep on winning. They’ve broken the 50-point barrier and now sit seven points clear of RSL and LA in the conference standings. Can anyone stop them lifting the Supporters’ Shield? Nineteen games now unbeaten at home now, and this could be a special season for Oscar Pareja’s team: they’re still going in the US Open Cup and the Concacaf Champions League, and they want silverware. “We’ve said it since the beginning of the year – we want to win something for this club and for us,” Victor Ulloa said after last week’s 3-1 win over Portland. “Tonight the guys did great and we showed that character and resilience, even with the guys gone for the national team. We’re built to win a championship, and we’re built to step up. Everybody stepped up a little bit tonight.” They should have their international stars back for the Colorado game, too: Kellyn Acosta, Carlos Gruezo, Maynor Figueroa and Tesho Akindele were all unavailable last week. “The thing I like the most is that this group is taking the journey one step at a time,” coach Pareja said. “I don’t want them to overthink too many things. I want them just to come and perform every day the way they are. That made me feel very honored to coach them.” TH The Red Bulls are doing everything they can to make sure they don’t come second in the conference. Jesse Marsch’s squad, unbeaten in 10 league matches, are pushing their bitter rivals NYC FC to the very end, and this week they travel to the nation’s capital to face DC United – who are themselves desperately hunting that last playoff spot. The Red Bulls will be happy to welcome back their creative midfielder Sacha Kljestan, who returns after an impressive outing with the US men’s team in their World Cup qualifiers against St Vincent & the Grenadines and Trinidad & Tobago. Kljestan had two goals and two assists in those two matches and he credits everything to his domestic club and his relationship with Marsch, a bond that started back when they played for Chivas USA, a team that was shut down by the league in 2014. “We [Red Bulls] have a system and a style of play that benefits me,” Kljestan said. “I have a coach that believes in me more than anyone else I have ever played for. Jesse is a guy, we played together for a long time. We have a great relationship. He really pushes me every day and he challenges me.” With the inclusion of Bradley Wright-Phillips’s firepower (joint top MLS goalscorer with 17 goals) and the return of their captain, Dax McCarty – who has been out through injury since July 31 – the red side of New York are pushing Patrick Vieira’s men all the way to the end. As for seventh-placed DC United, they need this one after experiencing a heart-breaking defeat against NYC FC last week. “That one hurts,” said head coach, Ben Olsen, after the 3-2 loss at Yankee Stadium. “But there are games in the season that hurt. I’ve never gone through a season in my career as a coach or a player that you don’t have games like this.” If they lose on Sunday and Orlando City (currently occupying the sixth spot) beat LA Galaxy, the gap would widen to five points. LME Wednesday night’s game at Stade Saputo was billed as Drogba v Kaka. Notwithstanding the other 20 players on display in Montreal, it was the Brazilian who came out on top: he helped himself to two more goals and a 4-1 victory for his in-form side. Drogba opened the scoring inside a minute on a goalkeeping howler from Joe Bendik, but then Kaka set to work: making the first one for Brek Shea, and twice staying ice-cold in front of goal, the second a penalty after Montreal keeper Evan Bush was harshly sent off. Orlando ran out convincing 4-1 winners, and their second straight victory lifted them into sixth position in the East, two points clear of DC United in the race for a playoff spot. All the more impressive since it was done without Cyle Larin and Kevin Molino, away on international duty. “I’m pleased. I’m pleased with two wins in a row for these guys. They’ve been working extremely hard. Some things really went our way tonight,” Lions head coach Jason Kreis said. Galaxy, Orlando’s opponents on Sunday, played out a 3-3 draw with Real Salt Lake on Wednesday night, but they should have won it, considering they were 3-1 up with 25 minutes to play, thanks to two goals and an assist from Giovani dos Santos. Alas for LA, Joao Plata reduced the deficit shortly afterwards, and then Burrito Martinez equalised in stoppage time with a shot that Brian Rowe really should have saved. “We shot ourselves in the foot,” admitted Galaxy coach Bruce Arena. “We walk away with a point when we should be walking away with three. Not an easy game, our guys worked really hard. It’s a shame that they didn’t reward themselves with three points. We could have been better on both of those plays … They’ve been through this enough this year. They should have it right. We’re in the 28th game of the season. This should not be a mystery at this point.” Galaxy are pretty much certain for a postseason slot, but their Supporters’ Shield hopes are vanishing fast – they sit seven points behind Dallas with six games to play. Despite having lost just four MLS games all season, draws have cost them: 14 ties is a league high. “We have seven games left in this season, and we need to improve,” Giovani said after the game in Utah. “We’ve got to do our best against Orlando.” TH 