 Luis Suárez has been suspended for two Copa del Rey matches for insulting Barcelona’s city rivals Espanyol. The referee’s report for the heated cup match at Camp Nou that ended 4-1 for Barcelona on Wednesday said Suárez insulted Espanyol players in the tunnel after the match. Espanyol had two players sent off in the game. Barcelona said in a statement they would appeal against the ruling from the Spanish football federation, denying Suárez taunted his opponents. The sides play the return leg next week at Espanyol. Espanyol finished the tie with nine men after Hernán Pérez and Papakouli Diop were sent off, while there were accusations Pau López, the goalkeeper, stamped on Lionel Messi. According to the referee, Juan Martínez Munuera: “At the end of the game, once in the tunnel, Barça’s No9 Suárez, while the Espanyol players were coming up the stairs, waited for them and shouted at them on various occasions. He said: ‘I’m waiting for you, come here! You’re a waste of space’. It provoked a confrontation between players of both clubs and the security guards had to get involved, as did coaches of both teams.” Asked about the incident, the Barça coach, Luis Enrique, dismissed the accusation as “Christmas carols”, presumably in reference to the fact the match was being played on Día de Los Reyes (Three Kings’ Day). “It isn’t down to the coaches or the players to keep the peace,” he added. “It’s down to the referees to ensure we play football and not American football. There was some tension. I’d like it if there were more football, fewer interruptions and no injuries. When someone oversteps the mark, it’s down to the referees to keep order. Of course there’s tension in these games. The players know each other, they’re two teams with a special rivalry but that rivalry has to remain positive.” Diop insisted the Uruguayan striker should have been sent off as well. “We both insulted each other. He said swear words to me, and me to him, and I get sent off. The referee told me he didn’t hear us both, only me,” Diop told Carrusel Deportivo. “[The press] have spent all week saying we are violent and this has had its effect. [Barcelona’s players] are really good and if you cannot even touch them, they can do what they want. You cannot say we were violent. There wasn’t any blood – if we had wanted to, the Barça players would have gone off on stretchers.” Espanyol received eight yellow cards and two reds during the match, although Andrés Iniesta dismissed suggestions things had gone over the top. “Violence is a very strong word, in games like this there’s a lot of rivalry and contact,” he said. In further fallout between the two sides, the Spanish league said it would be sending a report denouncing racist and abusive language by fans during Espanyol’s home La Liga match against Barcelona last Saturday to the government’s anti-violence committee for sports. The league said in a statement it will condemn racist slurs directed toward Barcelona’s Brazilian striker Neymar and abusive chants against the club. It said they broke the Spanish football federation’s disciplinary code, which prohibits chants that “incite violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports”. 