 Swansea have confirmed the appointment of Francesco Guidolin as head coach. The Italian is set to work alongside Alan Curtis in managing the relegation-threatened side for the rest of the season and will have the final say on team selection. Guidolin has previously managed Udinese, Palermo, Bologna and Parma in Italy as well as the French league side Monaco but most recently has acted as a technical supervisor to the Pozzo family, who own Watford, the La Liga side Granada and Udinese. “We are very pleased with the appointment,’’ the Swansea chairman, Huw Jenkins, said. “His experience and knowledge will be a huge asset to the club. Although we recently appointed Alan Curtis as manager until the end of the campaign, he was aware and comfortable with the fact that we were still looking to bring someone in to assist if we found the right person. “We believe we have found that person in Francesco. He has an excellent record, especially with Udinese over the last few years. He created an Udinese side from a relatively small budget – compared to the rest of the league – that competed with the big teams in Serie A.” Curtis has earned five points from a possible 21 in the games he has been in charge since Garry Monk’s departure in early December and has seen the club slip into the bottom three following Newcastle’s 2-1 win over West Ham on Saturday. Swansea are currently just one point ahead of Sunderland, who convincingly beat them 4-2 at home earlier this month and suffered an embarrassing 3-2 defeat to League Two’s Oxford United in the FA Cup third round. “It’s a very good opportunity for me at an important club,” said Guidolin. “At the moment it’s not a good situation for the club, but we have a good team. In Italy, I helped my team finish in a good position in the table, and that’s what I hope to achieve here at Swansea.” Swansea received £12m from Newcastle United for Jonjo Shelvey and Guidolin is expected to use his contacts abroad to bring in reinforcements during this transfer window, with a striker said to be top of the wish list. Guidolin will have a watching brief on Monday when Swansea face Watford, who have also struggled for form of late, losing their last three league games. Jenkins added: “He [Guidolin] instilled a belief and motivation to compete and beat the best Italy had to offer. It is similar to what this football club is trying to do in the Premier League. “He also has a wealth of knowledge of players throughout Europe which will be a big boost on our recruitment side; something we have been reviewing in a lot more depth over the last few months. “When the need arose to look for a new manager or head coach, those characteristics stood out from a number of other potential candidates, together with the enthusiasm he has shown to come in and help us turn our season around and retain our Premier League status.” 