 Everton head to Wembley for the FA Cup semi-final on Saturday but whether Roberto Martínez clings on beyond that game is open to doubt. Part one of a defining week for the Everton manager was “disastrous” and “a feeling of embarrassment” – his words. Liverpool accepted the invitation to inflict a humiliation. Just when Martínez needed a show of character, purpose or resistance – preferably a combination of all three – his team imploded. Jon Woods, the deputy vice-chairman and most senior Everton director present in the absence of the chairman, Bill Kenwright, and majority shareholder, Farhad Moshiri, had seen enough of the shambles by the 60th minute and left his seat. The self-inflicted nature of a defeat that amounted to a duck-shoot for Liverpool ensured sympathy for Martínez was non-existent from both sets of supporters. The in-form Divock Origi opened the scoring with his 10th goal of the season but was forced off on a stretcher as a consequence of a dreadful challenge by Ramiro Funes Mori. Mercifully Liverpool confirmed there was no break to the ankle but the Everton defender was rightly dismissed and misses the semi-final against Manchester United through suspension. Illness prompted the departure of John Stones moments after he gifted Liverpool their third goal and, with Martínez inexplicably starting the derby without a defender on the bench, the 10 men played the final 37 minutes with the midfielders James McCarthy and Muhamed Besic in central defence. They may have to start there at Wembley unless Phil Jagielka recovers from a hamstring injury. Mamadou Sakho, capitalising on yet more woeful defending, Daniel Sturridge and Philippe Coutinho added further punishment to the dishevelled Everton back-line. Origi’s injury was the only stain on Jürgen Klopp’s first taste of the Merseyside derby. The Liverpool manager spent most of the second half in fits of laughter and his admission that the second half lacked enjoyment because “there was no real fight any more” was as damning a verdict on Everton’s night as it gets. It was difficult to recall by the final whistle, but Everton had actually started brightly. Then, with two crosses from the left foot of James Milner in the space of three minutes before the interval it was all over. Everton’s attempts to deal with both were shambolic. Unfortunately for Martínez and seasoned observers of his team, it was no surprise and they were powerless to quell Liverpool’s gathering momentum. Gareth Barry was handed the captain’s armband on the night he equalled David James’ record of 571 Premier League starts and the 35-year-old was at the heart of the visitors’ determined opening. It counted for little, however, as Ross Barkley failed to provide sufficient support for Romelu Lukaku, several promising counter-attacks did not trouble Simon Mignolet and Bryan Oviedo endured a woeful night as an emergency right-back. Barry also joined the injury list at the interval with a groin problem. Liverpool’s opener was a replica of Origi’s recent goal against Stoke City. Milner swept a delightful cross to the back post where the striker rose above Stones to head home. The challenge from the central defender was non-existent and worse followed for the visitors with the final act of the half. Again, Everton cleared a set-piece only for the ball to return to the taker, Milner. He exchanged passes with Adam Lallana and broke to the by-line, crossing from the left for the unmarked Sakho to head into the roof of Joel Robles’ goal. Ultimately, being two goals down in the derby at half-time proved the least of Martínez’s concerns. Within five minutes of the restart Everton were down to 10 men as a result of a disgraceful challenge by Funes Mori. There was no threat to the visiting goal as Origi collected Alberto Moreno’s pass out near the right touchline but the Argentina defender came over the top, studs first, straight into the striker’s ankle. The referee, Robert Madley, had no hesitation in showing a straight red card yet Funes Mori had the temerity to protest before walking off while pulling at his Everton crest in a misguided show of pride. An immediate three-match suspension will follow. Ludicrously, despite his injury problems in defence and Callum Connolly’s impressive debut against Southampton last Saturday, Martínez had no defenders on the bench. His last fit and available centre-half, Stones, went off with stomach cramps moments after playing a careless pass out of defence straight to Lucas Leiva. Lucas accepted the invitation to return the ball through a gaping hole in the Everton rearguard for Origi’s replacement, Sturridge, to slot his 50th goal for the club into the bottom corner. That was the cue for Woods to leave. Liverpool’s fourth arrived after a flowing move involving Nathaniel Clyne and Joe Allen ended with Coutinho firing a trademark finish into the far corner. The only surprise was the home side’s failure to inflict further humiliation on Everton from 37 attempts on goal. Klopp’s team coast on. Where Martínez’s men go from here, even with Wembley beckoning, is anyone’s guess. 