 The whole gameplan going into this match was for Sri Lanka to give Muttiah Muralitharan something to bowl to in England's second innings. 150 may be enough. The problem with having a young side is that you have no conditioned fighting responses to situations in which the destiny of a match rests on you and you alone. I didn't know much about Kevin Pietersen before his Ashes performances last year, but it's obvious that he knows what it takes to win. Sri Lanka's problems going into this match have been threefold. First, and fundamentally, the problem with having a prime match-winner such as Murali on your side for so long is that no one else has ever learnt what to do in order to craft victory. Many of Murali's wickets have been in winning causes, but our success has been based also on Murali at least keeping an end tight if batsmen are making hay at the other end. Pietersen's straight six to the first ball he faced from Murali on Thursday and his sweep next ball showed that he had Murali's measure - can't beat him, can't contain him - and the fielders started walking an inch shorter. Maybe next time fewer doosras will be bowled, to preserve the delivery's surprise, and fewer runs permitted off the sweep, so maybe Pietersen's rhythm won't be allowed to be quite so attuned to the bowling. In 1987 I had Viv Richards swing the ball over my head time after time as I fielded on the boundary in Karachi as he was on his way to 181 off only 125 balls, but you cannot compare even that awesome display to what we have been seeing from Pietersen in this match. Pietersen is taking on someone who has more than 1,000 international wickets. Hardly anyone has ever truly mastered Murali, but Pietersen has shown up the difference not just between him and other batsmen but between the system that produced him and the one that Sri Lanka labour under. The second problem, therefore, is that there is something about our cricket culture that just keeps young people younger far longer than necessary. Our domestic cricket is juvenile - matches are low-intensity, crease occupation isn't encouraged and there aren't enough varied conditions to test a cricketer. There are no inbuilt springboards for youngsters to make the leap to the highest standard. Blooding new talent is almost always a case of having to choose between two shades of white. Towards the end of my career I would have been delighted to have youngsters or even Mike Hussey-like lags challenging me, but no one did. The ones unable to cement a place in the team back then are still the most detachable today. Self-belief is a terrific adhesive. Not many Sri Lankans have it. Third, in Sri Lanka we scream and shout about the wrong things. Sri Lanka's cricket will always be subject to losses amid the victories, but if you keep making the game one about individuals and administrators and not about the team then you aren't building the foundations of success. Sanath Jayasuriya by himself was never going to be the answer. Sanath Jayasuriya and what he can teach were. We need to be more pragmatic; if Chaminda Vaas and Lasith Malinga struggle with the Duke ball then we need to help them well in advance of a tour of England. Vaas is a great bowler and a thinker, and he alone has contained Pietersen. But for a marginal umpiring decision at Lord's he would have made a currently half-empty glass half full. We're in a vicious cycle. We're stuck in it. It doesn't look as if anyone really knows how to get out of it. England is not the ideal place to start a youth policy and that's why our batsmen have been unable to give Murali what he needs. People never talk of a 'brains trust' in Sri Lankan cricket for obvious reasons. We don't value brains as much as we should. Pietersen might make batting look awfully simple, but it's not just physique and power. His uber-batting is the product of immense thought. Take him away from the equation and Sri Lanka know that they can run through England. I'd just love it if our batsmen thought a little bit more of what they need to do in order to win. Think like Kevin Pietersen, for example. 