Football’s governing body obviously isn’t taking the problem of racial abuse seriously if it thinks its mission is complete. There’s a long way to go 
 Fifa has disbanded its anti-racism taskforce, because its mission has been “completely fulfilled”. This news will reverberate across football and beyond, and presumably herald a wholesale changing of the guard. Sam Allardyce will immediately stand down as England manager, having steered the national team to a World Cup. Theresa May will give up the premiership now that she’s proved, incontrovertibly, exactly what it is that Brexit means. Philosophers, having nailed down the meaning of life, will tend to their gardens. The other way to look at it is to ask yourself: if Fifa’s anti-racism taskforce has “completely fulfilled” its mission, what the hell was its mission in the first place? A football anti-racism taskforce, you might imagine, would be a force tasked with implementing measures to end the game’s association with bigotry. If you were improbably optimistic, you would hope that it could produce some evidence of the work it had done, and the substantial success of its interventions. Among the top four achievements listed in Fifa’s defence is the establishment of “a team of football legends”. The identity, or indeed existence, of these legends is not divulged via a search of Fifa’s own website, which may suggest they have a visibility problem, but no matter. What tangible results have there been of this admirable activity? What constitutes the complete fulfilment of the group’s mission? That’s a little less clear. Forgive the excessive use of ironic understatement. The trouble is, when confronted with such a bombastic, Trumpian display of denial, it is hard to come up with an appropriate response. What are you supposed to say when you consider the fact that Congolese football federation president Constant Omar has held exactly no meetings since he took over the taskforce a year ago, and, when he received letters asking him to pull his finger out and organise one, simply ignored them? A sober enumeration of the relevant facts can hardly do it justice. Let’s have a go, all the same. The next World Cup is in Russia, where absolutely no one is convinced that attempts to get racists out of the game have succeeded, where racist incidents logged by researchers in and around stadiums more than doubled last year, and where fans used to the benevolent indifference of their own national authorities may very well find themselves audible around the world as teams such as Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal compete in front of them. (Never forget the response from the national federation’s official responsible for fan behaviour in 2012, Alexander Meitin, when told of complaints from the Brazilian Anzhi Makhachkala player Roberto Carlos that bananas had been thrown at him during games more than once: “Bananas are a nutritious fruit and a yellow fruit, which always makes you happy.”) Think, likewise, of the fact that Uefa was forced to fine Croatia over the racist behaviour of its fans at the Euro 2016 match against the Czech Republic, during which flares were thrown on to the pitch. (That followed an incident the previous year when a swastika was mown into the pitch in Zagreb before a qualifying match against Italy.) Or look a little closer to home, at the British Kick It Out organisation’s most recent report, which said that it had received 393 reports of racist behaviour – up from 77 two years previously. The point of this is not that racism has quintupled in the last few years. The point is that Kick It Out – itself woefully underfunded, incidentally, receiving about 0.0004% of the Premier League’s new television income – has expended a great deal of effort on encouraging people to report it when it does happen, because, even if the issue is not as grotesque as it was a quarter of a century ago, it is still a curse. Not because football is a unique repository for hatred, but because there’s something about the cover of a crowd, in a stadium culture that sanctions all sorts of hostility, and in an activity that brings people of all ethnicities and nationalities together, that wakes up the bigoted little toerag who still dwells in too many of our heads. The proof that Fifa isn’t taking the problem sufficiently seriously is contained, conveniently enough, in the very idea that it considers its mission fulfilled. No one who is serious about the heavy, epochal collective effort to eradicate racism will ever consider that their mission is fulfilled, in any terms. The arc of the universe may bend towards justice, but it is long. And even if you are a goal ahead, the final whistle is much too far away to start wasting time. 