Plus: total domination, team v team; the 2004-05 ‘camel’; and brothers sent off for the same club. Send your questions and answers to knowledge@ or tweet @TheKnowledge_GU 
 “Before Christmas I went to watch my team, Witton Albion, play Chester FC in the FA Trophy,” writes Stephen Yoxall. “We were awarded a penalty after six seconds when Tolani Omotola was fouled by Blaine Hudson. Is this the fastest penalty awarded in football history? Highlights of the game are here, and the incident, from kick-off to penalty, starts about a minute in.” First things first: here’s what happened in the FA Trophy first-round tie on 13 December. Witton’s penalty, awarded after just 6.18 seconds (and, was saved, but Bradley Bauress followed up his own spot-kick to score the rebound. Omotola was then sent off later in the first half, before Hudson – probably fortunate to avoid a dismissal with the initial penalty – belatedly picked up a second booking during the second period. Witton’s coach Paul Moore was later sent to the stands, before the visitors’ Matthew Devine gave away a late penalty, which earned him a red card, and Chester an equaliser. And then the nine men were beaten when Chester’s Elliott Durrell grabbed an injury-time winner. “The madness that can happen in cup games, happened,” sighed Chester FC’s manager Jon McCarthy afterwards. “We’ve had the referee before, he’s all right, but it was like the game was out of control. Both sets of players and managers need to take responsibility for that, as well as the referee, and it created for a chaotic night … Was it like it like the football equivalent of Fawlty Towers? It was all 12 in one!” We’ve been unable to find a quicker penalty awarded, but here are some other noteworthy incidents, in descending order: 13 seconds – Columbus Crew v Chicago Fire (Jul 2015). Sean Johnson catches Ethan Finlay. Federico (brother of Gonzalo) Higuaín scores from the spot in a 3-1 win. 13 seconds – Valladolid v Celta Vigo (Mar 2001). Fernando Fernández scores after Celta defender Fernando Caceres hauled down Alberto Lopez, but the visitors came back to win 2-1. 11 seconds – Macclesfield v Wrexham (Nov 2013). The visitors’ goalkeeper Andy Coughlin brings down Connor Jennings, who steps up himself to score. The Silkmen win 3-2. Wrexham player-manager Andy Morrell: “I don’t think it’s a pen. I think he [Coughlin] got the ball but that a horrendous start for us.” 10 seconds – Montenegro v Ghana (Mar 2014). The Ghanaian defender David Addy slides in on Filip Kasalica from outside the area – contact is made just inside. Dejan Damjanovic converts the only goal of the game. 9 seconds – Steaua Bucharest v Dinamo (Nov 2016). Dinamo keeper Jaime Penedo clatters midfielder William De Amorim. Fernando Boldrin scores, but Dinamo come back to win 3-1. 8 seconds – Heerenveen v SC Cambuur (Nov 2014). Leonard Nienhuis sends Heerenveen’s Mark Uth flying – Uth gets up to score. It finishes 2-2. 8 seconds – Hamburg v Paderborn (Feb 2015). Marcell Jansen is scythed down by Patrick Ziegler. Rafael van der Vaart converts as Hamburg win 3-0. ‘Less than 10 seconds’ – Ängelholm v AIK (July 2010). As documented by Stuart Fuller here. We thought we’d check in with the record books and a kind spokesperson at Guinness World Records had this to say: “This isn’t something we currently have a record for but is something we would monitor, however the FA Trophy – which was the competition this was achieved in – would not qualify as the level of play falls below our requirements for professional standardisable sport. Unfortunately for records directly involving performance in competitive play, we must only accept those which occur at a top-level professional, international, or pre-eminent amateur (ie Olympics) level due to the various differences in competitions from country to country. As the FA Trophy covers teams from below the Football League, of which the majority are semi-professional, we’re unable to standardise the level of play when comparing to other leagues and cups across the world.” Still, it’s well, well worth your time … “Having learned that Ireland had never won a game of rugby union against New Zealand in more than 100 years of competitive fixtures, I was set to wondering whether there was a similar relationship between teams in football,” writes Owen Thomas. “Which pair of teams have competed in the most matches or for the longest time, with one of them having failed to ever win?” “Dundee United have played Barcelona four times in competitive football and have won all four,” cheers Jamie Watt, before posing a question of his own: “Does this make them the most successful club to play against Barça, for a team having played them multiple times?” And Kári Tulinius got in touch too: “Iceland’s first ever international fixture was in 1946 against Denmark, which the former colonial overlord won,” writes Kári. “That set the pattern for the next 70 years (at the very least). The two national teams have played 23 times, Denmark triumphing 19 times, including once 14-2. The other four games were draws. This might just be the world record in international football, but at least Iceland got to go to the Euros last year while Denmark sat it out.” Here’s that 14-2. “Looking at the top of the Scottish Premiership, it occurred to me that if St Johnstone could just get their act together and climb above Hearts, the initial letters of the first five teams would spell an actual word, ‘crash’,” points out Alistair Murdoch. “It got me wondering whether anyone out there has spotted any interesting words formed by the initial letters of teams in sequence in a league table (whether at the top or anywhere in the middle).” “I very much enjoyed the 2004-2005 season when a ‘camel’ finished top of the Premier League,” emails Arlindo Camacho. “Chelsea, Arsenal, Manchester United, Everton and then Liverpool. Before the latest round of games (if we’re referring to Tottenham as Spurs) we had ‘clams’. Yup. Great days.” Any more for any more? You know how to get in touch. “My club, non-league side Guildford City, have just completed what I think may be a unique, albeit unwanted, record,” wrote Matt Howell in 2001. “Have there been any other instances within senior football of two brothers being sent off for the same club during the same season while playing in the same position? Regular goalkeeper Antony Hall was dismissed last weekend, further to the sending off of his brother Michael during a cup match earlier in the season. It was Antony himself who suggested this might be a record and I’d be interested to see if he’s correct.” The Hall boys have some company, courtesy of Manchester United. “Fábio da Silva was sent off in a League Cup match against Wolves for a professional foul on Michael Kightly during the 2009-10 season,” wrote Tim Hill. “In the same season his brother (and twin) Rafael was also red carded while playing against Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarter-final.” “Has there ever been a substitution in a live commentary before?” wonders Ben Manchester. “Not just a pundit being changed because he has to be somewhere else, but a commentator losing his voice after a particularly vocal goal shout? Or a bout of hiccups?” “Ryan Giggs didn’t take a penalty for Manchester United (excluding shootouts) until scoring two against Tottenham in 2010 aged 36,” notes Mike Coxon. “This seems staggering given the amount of games he played for the club (and even more so when you consider that he went on to take quite a few more and never missed – think of the amount of goals he could have scored if he’d taken them since 1991), but is there any player who has taken their first penalty (either for their club or in their career) later?” “If York stay 24th in the National League, would they be the first pro club to be finish bottom of the table and be relegated for two consecutive seasons?” wonders Jim Waterson. “Obviously loads of clubs have been relegated in consecutive seasons but absolute last place twice is impressive.” “The MLS Cup final on 10 December was played in -4 degree weather. Was this the coldest cup final ever played?” ponders Chris Corrigan. “I know it’s a standard for national teams to take three goalkeepers to an international tournament in their squad,” begins Antony Collins. “I was wondering if there has even been an occasion when all of a squad’s goalkeepers have been injured, suspended or otherwise ineligible and a team has had to start a match with an outfield player in goal for an international tournament game?” 