 On the basis that sometimes you have to speculate to accumulate, Hampshire captain Shane Warne opened up the Division One game against Kent at the Rose Bowl with a characteristically inviting declaration that required the visiting side to make 225 to win in a minimum of 48 overs. Sadly, from a Hampshire viewpoint at least, the game finished in a draw when bad light brought the players off with 14 overs remaining and Kent out of the victory reckoning on 94 for four, though the chances are that they would have survived in any event. Still, good for Warne and his unquenchable thirst to play attacking cricket - and to win, of course. Warne later confirmed that he had approached Robert Key, his Kent counterpart, before the start of play and had offered Kent 65 overs in which to make 240. According to Warne, Kent were not interested in such an equation. 'We gave ourselves every possible chance of victory, but there was only one side that wanted to win from the first ball,' said Warne, perhaps a trifle ungraciously. That said, it should be remembered there is a bit of 'previous' between these two counties following a match between Kent and Nottinghamshire at Canterbury last September when Kent accepted a most ungenerous declaration deal and subsequently lost. It was a result that all but handed the title to Nottinghamshire at Hampshire's expense. Now, after polishing off the Kent tail, Hampshire sought to rapidly extend their 48-run first-innings lead, even after they had been reduced to a precarious 15 for three. John Crawley and Dominic Thornely added 93 for the fourth wicket in 18 overs, Crawley cracking a six and eight fours in an unbeaten 83 from 80 balls. Given the slow, seaming nature of the pitch, this was an impressive innings and one that was complemented by rapid-fire cameos from Dimitri Mascarenhas and Sean Ervine. Hampshire achieved the breakthrough when David Fulton was bowled by Ervine before Warne produced a ripper of a leg-break to bowl Key - middle stump, to boot - behind his legs. Matthew Walker and Martin van Jaarsveld also fell before the early denouement. The other games ended in rain-affected draws, too, with no play at all possible at Northampton and little elsewhere. 