Malcolm Allison’s alleged failure to pay for the services of a hypnotist came back to haunt him in the FA Cup third round in 1980, when his team of expensive imports were humbled by a hardworking Halifax side at their muddy ground By Steven Pye for That 1980s Sports Blog, part of the Guardian Sport Network 
 It was probably the last thing that Malcolm Allison wanted. After spending big at the start of the 1979-80 season, the pressure was building on Manchester City’s manager as the new decade commenced, and a trip to Fourth Division Halifax Town in the third round of the FA Cup awaited as the vultures circled. Taking on an improving Halifax was bad enough, but for Allison the tie would also see him lock horns again with an old foe from the past. It didn’t just rain on Saturday January 5 for Allison; it well and truly poured. Sitting in 16th place in the top flight in January 1980, the City board and supporters expected more. In the previous summer Allison had been appointed manager, with Tony Book stepping up to General Manager. City had won the League Cup in 1976 and finished second in the league in 1976-77 under Book, so Allison’s appointment in July 1979 was a gamble by chairman Peter Swales. It was a decision he would come to regret. The club flexed their muscles in the transfer market in the summer of 1979, spending £750,000 on Michael Robinson, £300,000 on Bobby Shinton, £250,000 on Steve Mackenzie (making Mackenzie the most expensive teenager in Britain), and £140,000 on Yugoslav defender Dragoslav Stepanovic. But the deal that really stood out came in September, when City spent a whopping £1,437,500 on Wolves midfielder Steve Daley, a deal that in subsequent years would be guaranteed a spot in any article discussing worst signings ever. Money was recouped on the popular duo of Gary Owen and Peter Barnes, along with Dave Watson and Asa Hartford, yet, with so much investment in the squad, Allison was in the spotlight as the season kicked off. A poor start, in which they won one of their first six matches, saw the press sharpening their pens, but ten 10 from the next 12 steadied the ship (in the days of two points for a win). Inconsistency ruled into the New Year. A 4-0 loss at home to Liverpool was followed up two weeks later by a 2-0 derby win over Manchester United; three consecutive defeats, including a 4-0 thumping at Ipswich, saw the team drop to 18th, before a 3-0 home win over Derby and a 2-1 win at Everton stopped the rot, highlighting the Jekyll and Hyde nature of the team. Before their trip to Halifax, City lost 4-1 to struggling Brighton and started a slide down the table that saw Allison’s reign begin to unravel with the club not winning a league match until 12 April. But as poor as the loss on the south coast was, there was worse to come a week later, as Allison took his team to The Shay on an unforgettable afternoon for both clubs. After being re-elected to the Football League in two of the last three seasons, Halifax were at least going the right way in 1979-80. Under the management of George Kirby, the club were in 11th position and had only lost one out of 13 at The Shay, their far from hospitable home.  Kirby had enjoyed success in his previous spell at the club, finishing third in Division Three in 1970-71, and then beating Manchester United 2-1 in the pre-season Watney Cup, before defecting to Watford. For the Liverpool-born Kirby, January 1980 would provide another opportunity to get one over a Mancunian rival. The build-up to the match focused heavily on two men in particular. Allison was understandably under scrutiny, but when Kirby used an old adversary of Allison’s in an attempt to give his players an edge in the tie, the City boss was forced to share the column inches as the match approached.  Allison had history with the hypnotist, Ronald Markham, who was more commonly known by his stage name Romark. In the 1975-76 season, Allison was managing Crystal Palace and had used the services of the hypnotist to boost the confidence of his players. Romark claimed he had never paid for the work and he was not a happy man. Hell hath no fury like a hypnotist scorned. Romark immediately placed a curse on Allison, even meeting up with Southampton boss Lawrie McMenemy the day before the 1976 FA Cup semi-final with Crystal Palace to give any support he could provide. Third Division Palace lost 2-0, and later missed out on promotion to Division Two. Whether or not you choose to believe in a curse is your choice, but Palace’s collapse in the league that season added intrigue to the tale. Romark met the Halifax players on the eve of the match, apparently hypnotising Paul Hendrie (father of future Aston Villa player Lee) and convincing him that he was the best midfielder in the country. Striker John Smith was sceptical about his meeting with Romark, telling the Lancashire Evening Post: “I was trying not to laugh and I’m thinking, what’s all this about? What a load of nonsense.” One factor that obviously did help the Halifax players was the state of the playing surface on the day of the match. Smith thought this was more of a factor and admitted that his manager tried to make it as uncomfortable as possible for their more illustrious opponents: “It had snowed all week and by Thursday the pitch was ankle deep in water, thawing out slowly. Kirby, though, got the fire hoses on the pitch, and poured hundreds of gallons of extra water on. By kick-off, the pitch was just about playable, but it looked like a soggy, peat bog.” It may be a cliche to say that the Cup is a great leveller, but back in the 1980s it truly was. Pitches like the one seen at The Shay were ideal for Cup upsets, even if Division One teams were not as spoilt then as they are now with their own grounds. Referee Michael Lowe inspected the pitch twice on the morning of the match and deemed it fit. City’s players would have taken one step on to the mud that day and known they were in for a fight. City were also hindered by a lack of experience in their defence. Without Tommy Booth, Willie Donachie, Paul Futcher, and Stepanovic, Allison was forced to field three teenagers in his back four – Tommy Caton, Nicky Reid, and Ray Ranson – and the situation would have been even worse had it not been for a British postal strike. Booth and Ranson had been sent off in a friendly against Real Madrid in December, but due to a delay in receiving the match report, they both avoided suspension against Halifax. Booth missed out anyway, but there would be no such lucky escape for Ranson. The match kicked off and City were under the cosh immediately. A long throw from Mick Kennedy eventually found its way to Hendrie, who pulled his volley wide from six yards out. The tone for the afternoon had been set. Shortly after, an Andy Stafford corner was tipped on to the post by Joe Corrigan, the excitement building in the 12,599 crowd as the conditions worsened. It was becoming increasingly clear that this was not a day for pretty football. Gradually City began to impose themselves, with Halifax keeper John Kilner doing well to deny Shinton, and then parrying a volley from ex-Preston team mate Michael Robinson. But there was still a threat down the other end. Towards the end of the half Corrigan denied Halifax captain Dave Evans, a player who had once marked Johan Cruyff while playing for Aston Villa against Barcelona in the Uefa Cup. At half time, both managers would have been relatively happy. Looking at the middle part of the pitch it is amazing how a game of football could take place during the second half, as the mud seemed to expand and sap energy from the players. Hendrie went close again, bringing panic to the City goalmouth, but the best chance of the match fell to Shinton. A Dave Bennett cross, made from one of the rare patches of grass on the pitch, was nodded back across goal, the ball landing at the feet of the City striker on the six-yard line (not that anyone could see it). But Shinton’s instinctive strike was well saved by Kilner, and soon after Hendrie made City pay the ultimate price. On 75 minutes the decisive blow was landed. A Stafford cross from the left was superbly cushioned by Smith into the path of Hendrie and the midfielder found himself one-on-one with Corrigan. Hendrie’s confident left-footed finish would prove the difference, and as the Halifax players celebrated in front of the stunned City fans, Allison must have wanted a hole to swallow him up. Instead he had to sit in the tiniest dugout imaginable, watching as his expensive misfits tried in vain to repair the damage. Daley went close late on but, as if to sum up his City career, his long-range effort went past the post and that was that. As soon as the final whistle sounded, the celebrations and recriminations could begin. As Halifax’s players enjoyed champagne, their City counterparts endured a dressing down from Allison and were forced to take a long look at themselves. “Defeat will not be the end of the world, but it will be bloody close to it,” Allison had declared before the trip to Halifax. How true. According to the press, cries of “Allison out” and “Swales out” could be heard from the terraces, with Daley having to be restrained while getting on the team coach after receiving abuse from supporters. The situation at Manchester City was as messy as the pitch at The Shay. Swales described the experience as “the worst football day of my life,” but promised to support Allison and Book. “All I can do is give Malcolm and Tony our backing. I still believe they can do the job,” said Swales. He was true to his word. In March, more money was thrown at the problem, with £1.25m spent on Kevin Reeves as the panic buys continued. City avoided relegation but the writing was on the wall. No wins in the first 12 league matches of 1980-81 season left Swales with no option. Allison was sacked and replaced by John Bond.  Halifax went on to lose in the fourth round at Bolton and finish 18th in the Fourth Division, with the City match very much the highlight of Kirby’s second spell at the club. Kirby was dismissed in June 1981 after the club had to re-apply for their league position once more. Hopefully he had the common sense to pay Romark in January 1980, otherwise people may have jumped to conclusions. And what of Romark? Happy to court the publicity, he announced that he would finally lift the curse on Allison, an invitation that was politely (or maybe not) turned down. Whether Romark had a positive influence on Halifax or not is debatable, but his presence certainly added an extra ingredient to the tie. “All the headlines, though, were about that hypnotist, but we beat Manchester City through courage, hard work and belief,” protested Smith. In truth, City were there for the taking, regardless of Romark. Martin Tyler neatly summed up the Halifax Cup shock in his Times report, writing that it had “every element of cup-tie football: the Fourth Division against the first; the poor of the league against the biggest spenders; a quagmire of a pitch in one of the game’s least fashionable settings.” It was the sort of occasion that seemed the norm back in the 1980s, as supporters of Harlow Town, York City,Port Vale and Sutton United can attest. Any City fan who went to Halifax that day and froze on the terraces, caked in mud, and embarrassed at the state of their club, fully deserves their moment of glory now. From Shinton to Sergio, life has rarely been dull if you follow Manchester City. • This blog first appeared on That 1980s Sports Blog• Follow Steven Pye on Twitter 