 The prospect of former international greats Alessandro Del Piero and Roberto Carlos facing off in the A-League has been raised after the Italian former Sydney FC marquee player said he is considering a career in coaching and the Brazilian was touted for a move to Australia. Del Piero, who helped greatly increase the A-League’s profile during his two-year stay, was linked by the media to a managerial role at the club when Frank Farina lost his job in April 2014.  Del Piero wasn’t interested then – he left when his playing contract expired and Graham Arnold later took his place in the hotseat – but he revealed his views on coaching have changed in recent years and he can now see the appeal of taking charge of a team.  “I will admit, I do now feel ready to become a coach,” he told Italian newspaper Corriere dello Sport. “If you’d asked me three years ago, I would’ve said no, but things are different now.  “This is such a complex job that allows you to experience football with a vision,” added the 40-year-old, who does not have any coaching badges. “I want to make it clear that I haven’t signed up for any course yet. “I worked for a long time with three greats, so learned from [Marcelo] Lippi, [Fabio] Capello and [Carlo] Ancelotti. I realised by working with them that a squad is guided with humility, intelligence and infinite patience.”  Del Piero officially hung up his boots after a brief stint in the inaugural Indian Super League with Delhi Dynamos, calling it a day at the end of the 2014 season. He was replaced as Delhi’s marquee player by Carlos, who became the club’s player-manager in July and will oversee the team’s 2015 campaign.  Carlos, who redefined the role of the left-back during his pomp as a player in the 1990s at the likes of Internazionale and Real Madrid, moved into management two years ago and has already had spells as coach for Turkish Superlig sides Sivasspor and Akhisar Belediyespor.  His representative Richard Seyton said the former free-kick specialist would be keen to continue his development as a coach in Australia. “I have been to Australia and studied the A-League, and in particular the football markets in Adelaide and Melbourne where I have seen Adelaide United and Melbourne Victory,” Seyton told News Corp.  “The A-League is a very stable competition and with Australia growing the game steadily among young children, [Carlos] can add his expansive knowledge of the game.  “Roberto Carlos’s record speaks for itself as a player and he has had success in Turkey coaching Sivasspor, which is a modest club by Turkish standards.  “He’s a lover of football, he really has that passion deeply embedded and he can bring some of what has made Brazilian football popular in the world to Australia’s doorstep.” 