 Tony Pulis has warned potential suitors that they will not be able to sign Saido Berahino on a cut-price deal this summer, after seeing West Brom’s winless Premier League run stretched to eight games with a draw at Bournemouth. The 22-year-old striker has been linked with a move to Watford and is about to enter the final 12 months of his Baggies contract, but Pulis insists the club will not let him leave on the cheap. “I don’t think my chairman does bargains,” he said, when asked if Premier League rivals are eyeing a knock-down price for Berahino. Pulis had seen Salomón Rondón head West Brom into an early lead at the Vitality Stadium, but Claudio Yacob’s mistake gifted Matt Ritchie a late leveller for Bournemouth. Craig Gardner also missed a first-half penalty for the visitors, which Pulis and the Bournemouth manager, Eddie Howe, agreed turned the game. “I think we deserved to win the game,” said Pulis. “We’ve not got the results we’ve deserved in the last five or six games. And this was another game where I’m really disappointed for the players, because their attitude and application was very good. “Obviously, we needed Gards to score to make it 2-0, and if it goes to 2-0 I think we go on and comfortably win the game. “It’s a boiling hot day and it would have been easy for the players to have their sandals on and they didn’t. We worked hard.” Bournemouth’s attack proved toothless for the majority of the game, the hosts hogging possession but wasting almost all that superiority. The visitors were happy to let Bournemouth knock the ball about in front of them, lurking with intent to hit the hosts on the break. It paid off as they opened the scoring on the quarter-hour, Jonny Evans’s neat cross allowing Rondón to hustle in front of the defensive cover to nod the ball past Artur Boruc. Tommy Elphick’s rustic challenge on Craig Dawson led to the penalty chance for West Brom but Boruc palmed Gardner’s average strike on to the bar, and the midfielder was unable to connect cleanly with the rebound. “It was an outstanding save,” said Howe. “It was a massive moment for us because if we’d gone down 2-0 it might have been a bridge too far. Before the season started we’d have bitten off arms, legs, whatever was available to be in this position that we’re in now.” After the break, Pulis threw Berahino into the mix in a bid to drag his players slightly further up the field – and the striker drew a smart low save from Boruc with his first meaningful touch. Then, suddenly, Bournemouth were level. Steve Cook’s long throw drew an unforced error from Yacob, his unwitting flick gifting Ritchie the equaliser. The substitute midfielder raced on to the loose ball and nodded past Ben Foster. 