• Club unmoved by manager’s methods despite reports Shaw is unhappy• Minor groin tear rules Shaw out of Wednesday’s EFL Cup tie at Northampton 
 Manchester United are not concerned about José Mourinho’s outspoken manner despite reports that Luke Shaw is unhappy at the criticism his manager levelled at him after the defeat at Watford on Sunday. Mourinho, who is aiming to avoid a fourth successive defeat when United face the League One side Northampton Town on Wednesday in the EFL Cup third round at Sixfields, singled out Shaw after the 3-1 defeat at Vicarage Road and claimed in his post-match press conference that the England defender was at fault for Watford’s second goal. “Our left-back is 25 metres away instead of five,” he said. “But give him 25 metres and you have to press. But no, we wait. It is a tactical but also mental attitude.” Shaw, 21, will not feature against Northampton after a scan on Monday revealed he had sustained a minor tear in a groin muscle but he was said to be disappointed that his manager decided to go public with his criticism, the defender believing he would benefit more from private instruction. It is understood, however, that United have no problem with their manager’s methods, seeing them as part of the approach which has brought the Portuguese so much success over the years including league titles in four countries and two Champions League triumphs. United believe Mourinho’s attitude is reminiscent of the club’s most successful manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, and are happy to allow the 53-year-old to employ whichever methods will be beneficial to the team’s development. Despite three successive Premier League victories to start this season, back-to-back defeats in the Manchester derby and against Watford have diminished some of the feelgood factor around the club since Mourinho’s arrival at the end of May. Yet there is an understanding that he has a large task to transform attitudes among his players after two years under the stewardship of Louis van Gaal. The Dutchman was known for taking a more hands-on approach to training and tactics, while Mourinho encourages his playing staff to think independently. United had initially feared that Shaw, who is only six games into his comeback from a serious knee injury that kept him out of action for almost a year, could miss up to three weeks with his latest ailment but it appears that he could be in contention to return against champions Leicester City on Saturday. 