 It seems harsh after a period in which his team have beaten Chelsea and Manchester United, reached the fourth round of the FA Cup and completed a record £10m-plus transfer but Eddie Howe acknowledges Bournemouth’s fate may hinge on the next fortnight. Before the next round of the Cup, the Premier League’s 16th-placed side host West Ham United and Norwich City and visit Sunderland. Maintain their current form, with the assistance of the new signings Benik Afobe and Juan Iturbe, and Bournemouth could be sailing into clear blue water. Before Afobe completed his switch from Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday, Howe already had plenty of cause for optimism. The former Arsenal and England Under-21s striker should be available for the two home games in five days this week – though Iturbe is still awaiting international clearance after his loan move from Roma – and, after resting his entire first XI to win their third round tie at St Andrew’s, Howe is conscious that his team could be even better off than their current status four points clear of the relegation zone. “It is a big period coming up for us,” Howe said. “We are well aware of the importance of the games and that’s why we felt it was prudent to make the changes [for Saturday] we did. We can’t underestimate the [importance] of the next few weeks in terms of our destiny this season. We want to make sure the players we have are fresh enough to do themselves justice in the schedule coming up.” Glenn Murray, Bournemouth’s matchwinner at Stamford Bridge last month, again contributed the decisive goal, five minutes from time after coming on as a substitute. Lee Tomlin had equalised from the penalty spot after Michael Morrison, the Birmingham captain, had given the Championship side the lead. “It highlights the strength of the squad that we were able to win at Birmingham. It was always going to be a tough game,” Howe added. “That’s one defeat in nine which is a good run of form for us and if we can continue that we should have no problems.” Howe’s rotation policy has already been vindicated by this victory but while he admitted he would continue to rest his Premier League team for Cup games, he criticised the powers that be for arranging another full set of league fixtures immediately after the next round as well as this. “If the FA Cup wants to be considered the best cup competition in the world, and keep its standing in English football, I’m not sure that is the wisest thing to do,” he said. “It does force your hand to a degree. Today we went to extremes to protect the players who will potentially play this week.” Birmingham also made seven changes but were an entirely different proposition from the team Gary Rowett, their manager, inherited 15 months ago immediately after an 8-0 defeat by these opponents. A well organised and spirited side have a top-six Championship finish within their grasp. Man of the match Marc Pugh (Bournemouth) 