 The primacy of Test cricket over other international forms of the game, a principle coveted by the England and Wales Cricket Board and reinforced by most who play at the highest level, suffered another blow when Cricket South Africa announced the itinerary for England's tour of the republic next winter. Gone is one of the traditional five Tests, to be replaced by two additional one-day internationals, making five in total. These, along with two Twenty20 internationals, will be staged before the Test series rather than after as had been the case on previous tours. Tests will be staged at Centurion, Durban – beginning on Boxing Day – Cape Town in the new year, and Johannesburg, with the tour finishing on 19 January. "We are grateful to colleagues and friends in South Africa who have worked with us to provide what we believe is an exciting and well-balanced tour," Hugh Morris, the managing director of England Cricket, said yesterday, no doubt through heavily gritted teeth. It was only last Monday that the ECB's ground-breaking seminar into the future of Test cricket agreed that it should be more aggressively promoted, with a paper to be sent to the International Cricket Council for ­consideration. It is also not long since the ECB announced that it intended to establish "icon series", involving five Tests against Australia, India and South Africa. The decision is based not, as has been claimed, on streamlining a schedule in which there was a potential logjam of fixtures, but on financial motives after a change of leadership at the top of CSA. The two cricket boards had originally agreed to stage five Tests, with a consequent reduction in ODIs. With Test crowds minuscule in South Africa, despite virtually nominal ticket prices, the income from additional ODIs would far outstrip any from Tests. South Africa tour: 10 Nov South Africa A, 20-over match, Bloemfontein; 13 Nov 1st Pro20 international, Johannesburg; 15 Nov 2nd Pro20 international, Centurion; 17 Nov South Africa A, 50-over match, Potchefstroom; 20 Nov 1st ODI, Johannesburg; 22 Nov 2nd ODI, Centurion; 27 Nov 3rd ODI, Newlands; 29 Nov 4th ODI, Port Elizabeth; 4 Dec 5th ODI, Durban; 9-10 Dec Tour match, East London; 11-12 Dec Tour match, East London; 16-20 Dec 1st Test, Centurion; 26-30 Dec 2nd Test, Durban; 3-7 Jan 3rd Test, Cape Town; 14-18 Jan 4th Test, Johannesburg. 