 Rory Loy’s second-half equaliser prevented Hearts closing the gap on Celtic, the Scottish Premiership leaders, to four points as Dundee sealed a 1-1 draw at a sold-out Tynecastle. Hearts took a 24th-minute lead when Arnaud Djoum headed his third goal in six appearances for the club after moving up front alongside Osman Sow in the absence of the suspended Juanma Delgado. The home side looked comfortably on course for their fifth consecutive league victory and clean sheet, but Loy beat the offside trap in the 67th minute before finishing expertly for his seventh goal of the campaign. Ross County got back to winning ways with a comfortable 3-0 home victory over Motherwell. Craig Curran gave County the advantage in the first half with a clinical finish after good work by Martin Woods. The hosts then dominated the second half and after Tony Dingwall doubled the lead in the 69th minute, Liam Boyce added a third goal in stoppage time with a penalty. Murray Davidson scored the winner as St Johnstone continued their good form by beating Dundee United 2-1 at Tannadice. Tommy Wright’s team had to come back from a goal behind after Billy McKay had headed the hosts into the lead. In a hard-fought match, goals late in the first half from Chris Kane and Davidson earned victory for the visitors. Striker Steven MacLean struck a second-half penalty over the bar for Saints but it did not prove costly as they held on against Mixu Paatelainen’s men. Partick Thistle beat Inverness 2-1 at Firhill and moved further away from the bottom of the table. The Highlanders enjoyed the better start to the game when Miles Storey fired them into the lead after six minutes. Kris Doolan restored parity for Thistle before Ryan Stevenson came off the bench to score the winner at the death. Goals have been hard to come by for the Jags and the victory was only their second win of the season at Firhill. Rangers suffered more frustration on the road as the Championship leaders were held to a 1-1 draw at Livingston. Jason Holt gave Rangers the lead with his fifth goal of the season but they were denied the win by a team 26 points behind them when Myles Hippolyte lashed home the equaliser just after half-time. Jason Cummings scored his 14th goal of the season to give Hibs victory at Alloa and move them level on points with Rangers, who have a game in hand. 