 Michael Owen has urged Liverpool to reveal the full extent of Daniel Sturridge’s recent injuries to bring an end to the rumours that the England striker could leave Anfield at the end of the season. Sturridge, 26, played 61 minutes of Liverpool’s 2-1 defeat at West Ham in the FA Cup fourth-round replay on Tuesday, his first appearance since coming on as a substitute against Newcastle at the start of December. Jürgen Klopp said the former Chelsea striker had played twice as long as the manager had originally earmarked but added that Sturridge could feature in Sunday’s Premier League fixture against Aston Villa. “We have to talk first with Daniel, the doctor and all of the medical staff before I make a decision about this,” said Klopp. However, Owen, who spent eight years at Anfield before moving to Real Madrid in 2004, believes the time has come for Liverpool’s manager to go public on the reasons behind Sturridge’s long absence. “I find it hard to have a view until we find out what’s wrong,” he said. “The club have not really said. Until we know exactly what problems he has had or has got, it is fuelling a lot of rumours. “I wish we knew a bit more. We all get texts on our phones saying Sturridge has done this or that, but it is all people guessing. People are saying things that are potentially unfair. I have been injured before and if he is getting muscle injuries then I have every sympathy because they are debilitating. You cannot play on with muscle injuries; they just tear, tear and tear until they erupt. It is the worst thing ever. “However, if he has joint pain – an ankle, a knee and a hip – it can be manageable. It is all about pain thresholds. We have not really been given they information so I do wince a little bit when I see people having a real go.” Sturridge, having missed five months with a hip injury, scored twice against Villa in September but was ruled out again after just three appearances because of a knee complaint. He returned at the start of November and made another three appearances for the first team but picked up a hamstring strain against Newcastle. Klopp had hoped to welcome him back at the start of January but, despite implementing a specialised training routine, another setback meant he was fit to return only this week. That led to rumours that the German manager could allow the striker to leave at the end of the season but Sturridge’s uncle Dean, who played for Derby, Leicester and Wolves, says his nephew is itching to return. “Daniel’s glad to be fit again,” he said. “He’s desperate to play and wants to show his team-mates, the fans and everyone connected to the club how passionate he is to be playing football. This has probably been the most difficult time in his career. Unfortunately he’s had a run of injuries which have stopped his career going the way he would want. “First and foremost, he wants to show the Liverpool fans how desperate he is to play and score goals, and he wants to contribute to this team that has not played as well this last five or six weeks.” In 2014 Sturridge claimed that his consistent injury problems “could be hereditary” after suffering thigh and calf problems while on England duty. Owen believes there is still time for him to earn a place in Roy Hodgson’s squad for Euro 2016 but warned any more setbacks could end those hopes. “He held the shirt before he got injured, so he would be right in amongst it,” Owen said. “He is a really good finisher, is quick and has a lot of confidence. He has a lot of class and would shoot right back into the reckoning. But he is running out of time and, with a dozen games left, if he got injured between now and the end of the season, you would have to say it is not going to happen.” BT Sport is your home of unmissable live football from the Champions League, Premier League and the FA Cup. Visit btsport.com 