The Middlesbrough and Derby managers face each other in a top-of-the-table meeting on Saturday and Karanka is clear only promotion will do this season 
 First time visitors to the Riverside Stadium invariably find their eyes drawn to Temenos. The arresting, 50 metre-tall Anish Kapoor sculpture is situated a long goal-kick from Middlesbrough’s home, and away fans can frequently be heard debating what the enormous web of steel wires slung between two giant hoops positioned beside the Tees actually signifies. Translated from its original Greek, Temenos means a piece of sacred land assigned as a place of sanctuary or the holy area surrounding a temple. After a year that has seen the decimation of Teesside’s steel industry the installation’s immediate environs have certainly proved a welcome oasis amid considerable local gloom. The Riverside will be packed to capacity on Saturday when the Championship leaders take on second-placed Derby County with the contest further spiced by a managerial sub-plot dubbed the battle of the former Real Madrid No2s. Boro’s Aitor Karanka assisted José Mourinho at the Bernabéu while Derby’s Paul Clement served as Carlo Ancelotti’s sidekick. “I think there’s some big similarities between us,” acknowledges Karanka. “To work with Carlo or José is like working with a master. When you’re with coaches like that you’re always at big clubs and always under pressure. You learn a lot. But after that, you have to put your own signature on things. When you become a manager you have to take the decisions and put into practise what you’ve learned.” It is evident that Boro’s manager, a former Real Madrid centre-half who was capped once by Spain, absorbed quite a bit about defensive organisation from Mourinho. With Dani Ayala in imperious central defensive form, Karanka’s backline is the meanest in the Championship and has now gone seven league games without conceding a goal. Indeed only two goals have been registered against Boro at the Riverside all season. Karanka is big on performing meticulous due diligence on the characters of all new recruits and this policy has helped forge an extraordinary dressing room spirit. When, back in October, the team had a mini wobble, Grant Leadbitter, Boro’s captain, reacted to a defeat at Cardiff by holding a spontaneous squad gathering at his house. The players talked for hours and, with Stewart Downing shifted into his preferred central attacking position in Karanka’s favoured 4-2-3-1 formation, Boro have won nine of their subsequent 11 Championship matches. An already rare bond between club and community was intensified when the left-back George Friend came up with the idea of players posing topless for a 2016 calendar with all proceeds going to the families of former steelworkers. It has not only been a big hit but reminded everyone of the importance of boosting the local economy and putting the area right back on the map by winning promotion. The latest delays to a decision over a third runway for Heathrow have meant the longed for, economically vital resumption of flights from Durham Tees Valley airport to London remains on hold but a return to the Premier League would, at least, make Middlesbrough part of the national, and international, conversation again. Karanka’s problem is that his is not the only club desperate to plug into a network powered by the gargantuan riches provided by next season’s top-tier television deal. If he and Clement will be deemed failures should their teams miss out on promotion, Chris Hughton is on a mission to make Brighton part of the south coast’s elite, while Steve Bruce’s Hull and Sean Dyche’s Burnley are similarly anxious to scramble back into the Premier League. Everyone is striving to create a Temenos, their very own place of sanctuary, in the game’s promised land. Ipswich, too, are in contention but their manager believes Karanka and Clement will celebrate automatic promotion in May. “If anyone finishes above Middlesbrough or Derby I’ll be very surprised,” says Mick McCarthy. “It’s not realistic for us to catch either of those two – although we’ll be trying like hell.” Karanka, whose side are a point ahead of Derby with a game in hand, seems in cautious agreement. “I think the league will be clearer this season than it was last year,” he says. “Even so, a lot of things can still happen and we have to concentrate on maintaining our momentum. I’ve only been in England two years but I know that every single game in this division is tough. I know we could beat Derby but then easily go somewhere like Bolton and lose.” The plight of Neil Lennon’s bottom-placed Bolton – a recent, established top-flight team who are now struggling to meet their wage bill – serves as a salutary warning of what can go wrong when clubs spend beyond their means in high-stakes promotion gambles. Karanka is suitably desperate to insulate Boro’s financial future with television riches. “The only thing I care about is Middlesbrough being in the Premier League next season,” he says. “It would be difficult for me to find a better chairman than Steve Gibson and I feel attached to this club, to this crowd and to the people who live here. My family are enjoying it a lot, we’re really comfortable here. I feel I’m in the right place, with the right people, at the right moment.” 