 In May 2013 Ben Watson scored the winning goal for Wigan in the FA Cup final against Manchester City. Two weeks later, Watford arrived at Wembley for a Championship play-off final where they were finally, heartbreakingly but not undeservedly beaten by Kevin Phillips’ extra-time penalty for Crystal Palace. On Sunday, Watson, Watford and Palace return to the site of his greatest footballing memory and the midfielder is surprisingly unhappy about it. In stoppage time at the end of the 2013 final Watson, an 81st-minute substitute, met Shaun Maloney’s corner at the near post and headed in the only goal of the game. It is a moment he has relived many times since. “It’s an achievement I’m proud of,” he says. “Some of the best players in England didn’t win an FA Cup. It’s got the history, it’s what you dream of as a boy and thankfully for me it was a dream come true.” Watford’s training ground – at least once a much-changed team had played out the midweek defeat at West Ham – was a hive of activity and excitement as preparation stepped up for their visit to Wembley. It is almost three years since their last visit but only four of the 18 members of that matchday squad remain at the club, with the manager long since departed. But Watson believes they should be visiting somewhere else. “I don’t think the semis should be played at Wembley,” he says. “I always remember growing up they were at Villa Park and places like that, and you wanted to get to the final to play at Wembley. That’s not really the case now because you play there in the semis. Possibly it takes a bit of an edge off the final. It’s a fantastic stadium and if you don’t get to the final at least you’ve played there, but I do believe that the semi-finals shouldn’t be played there.” At the age of 30 the key moments of his career are etched indelibly on his brain and on his skin. His legs are scarred from surgery, permanent reminders of the two broken legs he has suffered, one six months before the 2013 Cup final, the other nine months later. This is a game full of personal significance for Watson, who started his career at Palace, marked a career high-point at Wembley and returns in the colours of Watford, but also represents clear evidence of his personal victory over those who wondered whether he could overcome the adversity. “I’m proud of where I’ve come from,” he says. “The second leg break was the worse one and there was a number of people that doubted me when I did come back and said that I couldn’t do this and I couldn’t do that. When you hear that it is downheartening. It’s then down to yourself to get out there and prove people wrong and I believe I’ve done that.” Ten games after he made his second comeback, with Wigan 23rd in the Championship and crumbling, he moved to Vicarage Road for an undisclosed fee. He made his debut the following day, coming off the bench at half-time with his new team two goals down at home to Blackpool. They scored four goals in the next 15 minutes, and ended up winning 7-2. Sixth when he arrived having lost 31% of their league games, Watford were the best team in the division thereafter, lost 15% of their games and won promotion. The success has continued this season, even if there have been only three league victories since Christmas. “I’ve never played in a Premier League season where, with four games to go, we’re joint 11th,” says Watson. “The year I had in the Premier League with Palace and the years with Wigan, it was down to the last game whether you stayed up. When you stay up with four games to go it’s a lot more enjoyable. But that doesn’t mean it’s a case of holiday mode, let’s get our flip flops on and chill out. “We’ve got four games to go and we know if we can get the wins we believe we can get, we can finish in the top 10 of the Premier League and get to an FA Cup final. It’s a fantastic opportunity to do something special.” Watford’s recent form has, however, led to questions over the future of their manager, Quique Sánchez Flores, almost inevitably, given how frequently Watford have changed coaches since they were bought by Gino Pozzo in 2012. As conversation turns to the Spaniard, the man himself walks past. “Look at him, he’s just cool, isn’t he?” says Watson, grinning. “He’s a 50-year-old man who looks about 25, he’s just got that way about him.” If some are doubting him, Watson is clearly not among them. “For a manager to take over, his first job in England, sign 15 new players and have us in the position we are in the league and in the semi-final of the FA Cup, he’s doing something right,” says Watson. “All this about him coming under pressure, it’s crazy. Alright, we set our standards high in the first half of the season, but this is the Premier League – it’s relentless and you’re going to have dips in form.” It is something Palace, who have won one league game since Christmas, know equally well. So similar are the two sides’ form, their results against each other this season and their league positions the encounter at Wembley may well be as tense and hard-fought as their last. Despite his history with and affection for his opponents, Watson would be happy to be the man to decide it. “We’re under no pressure to win,” he says. “Out of the four teams, we’re the one that got promoted last year so realistically we’re the underdogs and that’s how we’ll approach the game. But it’d be great to score. It’s the FA Cup semi-final, somebody’s got to be a hero, and hopefully that’s me. Again.” 