 It is not yet clear if anything will come of the allegations of so-called "spot-fixing" against a pair of Essex cricketers, spot-fixing being the manipulation of small events during a passage of play. A charge would surely be extremely difficult to prove, the evidence required to secure a conviction under the Gaming Act 2005 considerable, including when an offence was perpetrated, how, with whom, how much, where the money came from and went, who else was involved and so forth. Nor, as the Gaming Act takes responsibility for investigation away from regulatory bodies in favour of the police, has this now to do with the England and Wales Cricket Board, the ICC or Essex county cricket club. On the face of it, then, it seemed foolhardy to leak the names of two players said to be under investigation, particularly as they deny any involvement. Should this whole thing disappear, then the players themselves may have a strong case for legal action. This is not to say no good will have come out of bringing the prospect of fixing into the spotlight. It is a shot across the bows. Ever since the really bad old days, when such things first went beyond mere speculation and rumour and came to light, the ICC anti-corruption unit, initially headed by Lord Condon, while keen to secure convictions if possible, was more focused on prevention. Those involved at the time, it was reasoned, would soon be leaving the game in any case and it was more important that future generations understood the implications should they ever consider a trip down the same illegal route. As Asif Iqbal, the former Pakistan and Kent batsman who was himself once a subject of unfounded innuendo and allegation, said recently, it is about education. However, it would be naive in the extreme to think that fixing does not go on and, despite the best efforts at regulation, will continue to flourish in the game around the world on levels ranging from a small what's-the-harm punt with a mate putting a few bob on, to the massive, almost unimaginable amounts that are gambled through India's illegal bookmakers. There are fellows, don't forget, who cultivate vulnerable players, offer inducements and sweeteners, and then, once the hooks are in, squeeze them. At that level, it is surely not overdramatising matters to suggest that once they have been sucked in, their lives could be on the line should they default. From a regulatory viewpoint, the rise of Twenty20 has been the worst nightmare. The old notion of match‑fixing, the crudest of such ideas, has long since passed in favour of manipulating incidents, the former requiring more complicity from the team as a whole. Key to the change has been the rise over the past two decades of spread betting, something that derives from the financial world. Now it is almost certainly true that the shorter the game, the easier it is to fix incidents, for anomalies are less readily spotted. And the more frenetic the type of cricket gets, the less likely any notice is going to be taken of the sort of extraordinary things that might once have aroused suspicion. Most under threat, bearing in mind the bookies' domain, in terms of scale if not opportunity, is the Indian Premier League, which has raised the technical bar of T20 but in so doing has left itself vulnerable. So, for example, where a serving of full tosses, dispatched out of the ground, to the tune of 20 or so runs in an over, might once have aroused suspicions in a no-account game in Sharjah, that type of delivery now is often considered a better option than say, a length delivery, while huge numbers are being racked up against all types of bowlers. In other words, things that once might have been considered anomalous are now mainstream. Just imagine trying to pick the bones out of that. But let me tell you a story about how easy it could be to beat the system. Some years ago, I arrived at Lord's for a domestic final, to be greeted by a friend who likes his gamble. What, he asked, did I think would be the spread on the number of deliveries before a wide was signalled. Knowing who would be bowling the opening over and from which end, I thought the chances of a first-ball wide were extremely high. It transpired the spread was 24 to 26 deliveries. As predicted the first delivery went miles down the leg-side and my chum was instantly several thousand pounds richer. No impropriety is suggested, but suppose the bowler had registered the spread? What is one small wide? Who is to know? Or what if my friend had known the player and suggested collusion? It really can be that simple. 