 Joachim Löw has signed a contract to manage Germany until after Euro 2020. The 56-year-old has agreed an early two-year extension, meaning he will be in charge for the next two championships. Low succeeded Jürgen Klinsmann in 2006 and led them to World Cup glory in 2014. Germany were beaten by France in the semi-finals of Euro 2016, but have begun the qualifying campaign for the 2018 World Cup in Russia well. They top Group C with three wins from three, with an away match in San Marino next up on 11 November. In Löw’s five major tournaments at the helm, Germany have always made it at least to the semi-finals. They were beaten finalists at Euro 2008. “I have always stressed I could not imagine a better coach for our national team than Jogi Löw,” Reinhard Grindel said. “He has defined this team over the years with his passion and his expert ability, bringing them on and leading them to the World Cup title. The president of the German football federation added: “He emits great decisiveness and the motivation to defend the World Cup title in Russia. Both sides wanted security for planning the future and to be able to concentrate on the sporting challenges we face without any disturbances from speculation. “We are pleased that we are able to continue this extremely faithful and successful collaboration beyond the World Cup and Jogi Löw would also like to be in charge when we want to start our home group games at Euro 2020 in Munich.” Should Low see out his contract, he would break the record of 167 games as the Germany manager held by Sepp Herberger. He has already beaten Herberger’s record of wins (94) in his 141 games in charge so far. No Germany manager has ever been in charge for seven major tournaments. “Our collaboration is defined by great trust,” Löw said. “We all want to confirm our success from Brazil [in 2010] in Russia. “It’s a great joy for me to develop the team and the players and lead them to the highest level – that spurs me on just as much as winning titles. Right now, all that matters for us is to win our group and qualify for the World Cup in Russia.” 