 Last seen battling two of the world’s best teams and coming up short, this was a stress-free return to action for the United States, as they moved smoothly to the brink of the last round of the Concacaf qualifying tournament for the 2018 World Cup. Coming after June’s humiliating 4-0 loss to Argentina in the semi-finals of the Copa America Centenario and the 1-0 defeat by Colombia in the third-place playoff, this Caribbean trip was the sporting equivalent of a relaxing beach holiday. The US were 3-0 up on St Vincent & the Grenadines by half time and added another three goals after the break when Christian Pulisic and Sacha Kljestan came off the bench and combined to lethal effect. Jurgen Klinsmann’s side drew level on points with Trinidad & Tobago at the top of Group C, with one fixture to come – against T&T on Tuesday in Jacksonville. T&T were scheduled to face Guatemala later on Friday, with the Americans’ passage to the decisive “Hex” qualifying phase assured if Guatemala lose. The top two finishers in the three groups of four teams reach the “Hex”, which starts in November and features six nations vying for one of three guaranteed tickets to Russia, plus the chance of a play-off against an Asian side. A 2-0 loss on the road to Guatemala in March had placed Klinsmann under pressure that mostly dissolved once the team met expectations by reaching the Copa semi-finals, even if there was a large dollop of wishful thinking from some quarters helping to nourish the rumours that the head coach might be offered the England job. If England’s loss to Iceland at Euro 2016 was a reminder that organised and inspired minnows can sometimes gobble up bigger rivals, the shock factor of that result underlined the rarity of genuinely huge upsets in knockout tournaments, let alone mini-leagues. Italia ’90 was the last World Cup not to feature both of the Concacaf region’s two powers, the US and Mexico (who were banned). It was quickly obvious that this would not be a glorious day for the Vincy Heat, who knew before kick-off they would not be going to Russia after losing all four of their matches, scoring three goals and conceding 19. The island chain with a population of about 100,000 is ranked equal 156th in the world by Fifa; one of their greatest-ever players, Rodney Jack, was a fan favourite in England with Torquay United and Crewe Alexandra in the 1990s. Another, Ezra Hendrickson, won three MLS Cups over twelve years in the league and coaches Seattle Sounders’ second team. When the sides met in St Louis last November, the US won, 6-1. Many St Vincent players are part-timers. Still, like a politician with a commanding lead in the polls before election day, Klinsmann’s task is to project confidence and look to the future while encouraging a hint of doubt in order to avoid complacency. If there was any justification for approaching these opponents with caution, it was that the US were certainly under-strength: forwards Clint Dempsey and Gyasi Zardes, defender John Brooks and midfielder Jermaine Jones were unavailable through injury or health concerns, while captain Michael Bradley was suspended.Klinsmann sounded a familiar refrain about the slow progress of America’s youngsters in a pre-match interview with ESPN, and duly started only one inexperienced player: 21-year-old Kellyn Acosta of FC Dallas, typically deployed in midfield but here at left back, with Fabian Johnson pushing higher up the field. Kyle Beckerman, 34, and 30-year-old Graham Zusi began in midfield while Darlington Nagbe, Jordan Morris and Pulisic waited on the bench. Intriguingly, Klinsmann earlier revealed that Brad Guzan, his first choice at the Copa, would start this game but 37-year-old Tim Howard would slide between the posts for what should be a busier assignment on Tuesday. Matt Besler – whose wife gave birth to a daughter earlier in the day – started in defence. The home team’s starting XI included Seattle Sounders’ Oalex Anderson, who scored a memorable opening goal in last year’s 6-1 loss. That was played in a baseball stadium; Friday’s return took place at a cricket ground, with an afternoon kick-off because of the lack of floodlights and a darker shade of green in the centre circle indicating the usual location of the wicket. The Americans ought to have scored after only two minutes, but Bobby Wood, clean through, scuffed his left-footed shot and gave Lemus Christopher an easy save. St Vincent’s most promising moment of the first half came after 26 minutes, but Anderson botched a header after sneaking beyond the US back line to connect with a floated free kick. A minute later, the US were ahead, Wood guiding the ball into the far corner from the edge of the area, continuing the strong form he has shown at Hamburg in recent weeks. A special day for Besler grew even better after 32 minutes when he coolly controlled a misplaced defensive header and steered in his first international goal from six yards. The baby-rocking celebration was inevitable. Jozy Altidore, back from injury and wearing the armband, made it 3-0 from the penalty spot a couple of minutes before half time after Roy Richards scythed down Wood with a reckless challenge and was lucky to escape with only a yellow card. St Vincent had the better of the early exchanges in the second period, and cruelly had two goals correctly ruled out for offside, but the Americans settled down and two substitutes combined to extend the advantage after 71 minutes. Kljestan set up Pulisic for an impressive finish as the 17-year-old controlled the pass and slotted the ball beyond the goalkeeper for his second US goal. Both had been on the field for only a couple of minutes. It was 5-0 a couple of minutes later when Pulisic surged down the left wing and crossed to give Kljestan a simple finish. In stoppage time the Borussia Dortmund teenager scored his second of the afternoon, set up by Kljestan and given ample space to pick his spot from 18 yards. The pair’s swift and dramatic impact added interest to a half that had been listing aimlessly, making it hard not to wonder why they had not been introduced far earlier. That, though, could only be a minor gripe given the emphatic scoreline. 