 A perfect night for Arsenal! After a jittery start they grew into the game and emerged as masterful winners thanks to a hat-trick by Giroud, excellent performances by Campbell, Ozil, Koscielny and Mertesacker. They’re recovered from an awful start to the campaign and reached the knockout stage for the 16th year in succession. Wenger said beforehand that it would be the greatest escape of his reign and he and his players can now bask in deserved acclaim. Keep this up, get all their injured players back, and they might yet have an even longer-lasting laugh.  Updated
 90 +1 min: Arsenal substitution: Oxlade-Chamberlain trots on, and Campbell walks off to a loud and fully deserved ovation - from both sets of fans, as the Greeks remain grateful for the performances he put in for them when he was on loan. 
 89 min: “Is this one of the least Arsenal-esque performances of recent times?” wonders Tom Atkins. “Big name players delivering, no late dramas, no injuries and a magnificent hat-trick by a big striker. Satchel may not be on the field but the impact he’s had on the side is evident.” It’s going to be weird hearing Arsenal fans not being able to complain about anything. 
 86 min: It’s been a dream night for Arsenal ... but not quite wild enough for Monreal to be able to smash a 25-yard volley into the top corner. Instead it goes out for a throw-in. 
 84 min: You know the home fans have given up when they can’t even summon enough hostility to boo the PA’s information notice to Arsenal fans. Manager Mauro Silva is still going through the motion though: he’s just replaced Pardo with Finnboggason, for all the good it’ll do. 
 80 min: Ozil stands over a freekick at the corner of the Olympiakos box. He tries to catch out the keeper at the near post but Roberto punches away. “The only question now is which Arsenal player will get injured,” wonders Scott Wedel. Maybe, but at the moment this is shaping up to be a night of unadulterated triumph for Arsenal and Wenger. The big players mentioned beforehand have turned up - Giroud and Ozil - and several others have risen to the occasion too, especially Campbell and, after a dodgy start, Mertesacker. 
 77 min: Ramsey, another fine performer tonight, gains possession in midfield and spreads it wide to Campbell. For once the Costa Rican’s pass is imprecise, as he over-hits an intended ball to Giroud.  
 74 min: Campbell’s on the gallop again. After starting a move in his own half, he lopes forward and threads a pass through to Giroud, whose first-time shot is saved by the keeper. Turns out the Frenchman was offside anyway. At this rate, Wenger should take Campbell off to make sure he doesn’t get the booking that would rule him out of the first leg of their next tie.  
 69 min: Olympiakos seem burst. Arsenal are in platform boots and strutting now. You can tell by the way they use their walk that they’re a last 16 team and know it. Olympiakos know it too. Only question now is whether Campbell will get the goal his performances deserves. 
 67 min: Just to recap: Olympiakos have 23 minutes to score three goals (and avoid conceding any more), as a 3-2 Arsenal victory would send Wenger’s men through. 
 62 min: What a chance for Olympiakos! A powerful shot/cross falls to Ideye, whose first touch is heavy ... and that gives Mertesacker just enough time to lunge in with a saving tackle! Get that wrong and it was a penalty or an open goal for Ideye! Chances keep coming at both ends here. It’s up for grabs alright!  
 61 min: There are more goals here for Arsenal, no doubt. Walcott had a chance just now but appeared to be slightly put off by Giround’s run across him and then got confused about whether to shoot or pass to the Frenchman. In the end he dabbed the ball to the nearest defender. 
 59 min: I’ve just seen a replay of the goal and feel the need to emphasis how well Campbell did to create it. Composure, deftness and awareness - the Costa Rican showed the lot as he dragged the ball away from a defender and rolled it perfectly into the path of Giroud, who would have been guilty of a crime against football it he’d messed up the finish: but he didn’t, he slapped it under the keeper well.  
 58 min: This is a marvellously open game now, amid an achingly taut atmosphere! Cech has just had to fling himself across his goal to tip a curling 20-yard shot by Fortounis around the post. Decent stop!  
 56 min: Oooh! That nearly sealed it for Arsenal! Campbell again did brilliantly, hooking in a cross that found its way to Walcott at the far post (after Giroud went down in suspicious circumstances). The forward’s shot on the bounce takes a nick off a defender and flies just wide!  Updated
 55 min: Strong play by Koscielny induces Pardos to make a fool of himself, throwing himself to the turf and clutching his face in the hope that the ref will give him a freekick, all because he couldn’t get around the defender and take the ball.  
 @Paul_Doyle 2 goals are in, boys. I won't hold it against the team if we park the bus like Chelsea now. #arsvsoly 
 51 min: No point in Olympiakos going defensive now: they need a goal. And they go in immediate search of one and win a corner. Siovas meets it with a powerful header from 10 yards ... but it straight at Cech, who holds it calmly. 
 Guess that means his ankle is OK! Moments after hobbling back on to the pitch, Giroud receives a pass from Campbell - who did superbly - and slots it into the net from 12 yards! As things stand, Arsenal are about to pull off the great escape! Updated
 48 min: Uh-oh. Arsenal’s injury blues may be about to get deeper: Giroud is down and looking in serious pain after turning his ankle. You never quite know with Giroud - he does like a roll on the ground - but this one does look dicey. After a bit of treatment he hobbles off ... 
 47 min: Nope, Olympiakos haven’t suddenly gone defensive! They come charging out of the blocks at the start of the second half, Pardo dazzles past Monreal down the left and hoiks in a vicious cross. Mertesacker does well to head away from right in front of his own goal. 
 46 min: “Patrick McCabe [27 mins] was right on,” hollers Mike Nichols. “Cazorla brings the ball out of defence, picks out the right pass going forward, and helps push the pace, especially on the counter. Without him, the team’s definitely playing with the handbrake on.” I wonder whether Olympiakos wish they had played with the handbrake on in the first half? Their boldness has been admirable and could have paid off but, well, it hasn’t so far. Will they be more defensive in the second half and try to cling on for a 1-0 defeat? 
 Another half like that will do Arsenal just fine! They started shakily but scored with a nicely constructed goal and have since grown in solidity. Olympiakos are certainly dangerous but Arsenal have shown that they, too, carry a threat on the break. This game is tautly poised. It’s up for grabs now! 