 Jonathan Howcroft It wasn’t a vintage performance by any means but Australia were worthy 2-0 winners. If Iraq had been awarded a decent penalty shout in the first half it could have been awkward but the home side’s class eventually told later on. “Patience and persistence are key,” skipper Mile Jedinak said afterwards, and you’d think this is the template for home fixtures for the Socceroos this campaign. Away sides pressing hard and playing for a clean sheet, Australia huffing and puffing but requiring patience before they can blow the house down. Postecoglou’s surprise selections were justified with Tomi Juric scoring and assisting, and Mark Milligan complementing Trent Sainsbury in defence.  Attention now turns to Wednesday night and the second group match away to the UAE. Incredibly the UAE head into the fixture off the back of defeating Japan 2-1 in Saitama. Also, in case you were wondering, it’s 42 degrees in Abu Dhabi right now, so expect a few changes to tonight’s starting XI.  Anyhow, thanks for your company tonight, always nice to start a qualifying campaign off with a win. See you next time. Full match report here: Updated
 90 + 3 mins: Australia better hope goal difference doesn’t become a factor later on in qualifying as they’ve thrown away a bagful in the last 15 minutes with sloppy final passes. 
 90 + 1 mins: Kruse isn’t winding down, the substitute relishing the spaces behind the Iraq defence, but a couple of poor decisions mean he failed to play the early ball to Apostolos Giannou, nor did he pick out a gold shirt with his subsequent cross. 
 88 mins: Maybe we’ve just seen the start of the post-Cahill era. A 2-0 lead with only a few minutes remaining and all three substitutes have been made without the Melbourne City marquee amongst the 14 to feature.  
 85 mins: Elsewhere in Group B, UAE are ten minutes away from beating Japan, in Japan. Apostolos Giannou replaces Matt Leckie.  
 Almost 20,000 in the stadium, decent chunk of Iraqis as well, good pitch, keeper chants aside good showing by Perth #AUSvIRQ 
 85 mins: Mooy’s seen plenty of the ball tonight. He’s pushed and probed but only rarely shown his star quality. Clearly Australia’s most important player now though and this structure is designed to allow him to shine.  
 82 mins: It’s fair to say that outside of a couple of decent crosses Brad Smith has had a stinker. His control’s been poor, he was beaten a few times on the outside during the first half, and in the second was deservedly booked. Another heavy touch stymies a decent attack and then a cross fails to beat the first defender.  
 76 mins: All Australia now (no, not the AFL awards ceremony on the other channel) with breakaways every time the home side take possession. The final ball continues to prove an issue though with Kruse the culprit on a couple of occasions. 
 73 mins: Mooy’s inswinging corners are causing Iraq all sorts. Another dangerous right footed delivery causes problems that result in Tom Rogic testing Mohammed Hamed’s reflexes. 
 71 mins: The pace of Kruse and Leckie really stretching the Iraq defence now. Rogic finding more time and space too between lines to provide those weighted passes. Much happier times at Perth Rectangular Stadium. 
 68 mins: Yellow card to Brad Smith for a crude challenge on the edge of his own box. Abbas goes for goal from the free kick but it dips harmlessly over Ryan’s bar. 
 66 mins: Juric is immediately substituted for Robbie Kruse. He put in a good shift tonight Juric. Worked hard and featured in all of Australia’s best attacking moments. A little more poise and he could have bagged a hat-trick.  
 Just like with his previous miss, Juric makes up for his mistake immediately, tapping in a Milligan flick on from Mooy’s corner to give Australia a commanding position. Updated
 65 mins: Juric has another golden opportunity after good work from Mooy. He ends up one on one just inside the box but the keeper was out smartly to smother.  Interesting news elsewhere in the group with the UAE 2-1 up against Japan, in Japan! 
 63 mins: This game has opened right out in the last 10 minutes. Australia are getting behind the Iraq defence at will now, but Iraq’s counterattacks are causing problems for the Socceroos. Postecoglou might want to just tighten this up a little for a few minutes now the lead has ben established. 
 60 mins: Sighs of relief all round after a frenetic few minutes that could have seen goals at both ends. Credit to Tomi Juric, his miss a few minutes ago was a shocker but he recovered composure to tee up Luongo.  
 Not that it matters as Juric squares for Luongo to tap in at the far post from another good Australian attack.  Updated
 56 mins: Mooy hits the bar! The best passing move of the match for Australia with Jedinak staring a chain that ends with Mooy striking a right footed shot from the edge of the D that cannons into the crossbar. Mooy was stretching and almost sliding as he hit it. Better from the Socceroos. Iraq go down the other end straight away and Abbas forces a good save from Ryan. In the next passage Leckie gets in behind Iraq’s defence, squares the ball to Juric and - oh dear me - that’s an instant social media “HOW DID HE MISS?” classic. Updated
 55 mins: Australia’s front two of Juric and Leckie are running noticeably wider patterns this half, but both have miscontrolled in promising situations.  
 53 mins: Ali Abbas has been booked, for something, not sure what yet.  The pattern of the game is much the same as the first half, Australia with lots of possession but not really looking threatening, Iraq scrapping to disrupt everything. I’d expect a change of personnel and structure soon. 
 49 mins: Not much to report at the start of the second half until Mooy goes down on the edge of the box under a high ball but the ref’s not interested. Hmmm, on replay that’s in the box, and a definite push. The quintessential “You’ve seen them given”. Updated
 Old Mate Martin Turnbull (20:30) has changed his tune... “Right, rowing back from my hope of a regulation win. More than happy with the jammiest goal of all time. Socceroos struggling here.” I reckon you’re not alone there Martin. Something to cling to, in their last five matches against Iraq, Australia have only scored two first half goals. Most strikes tend to come in the final quarter, so go easy on those nails. 
 While you’re off stirring yourself a Milo, or single malt, or whatever keeps you warm at night, keep thinking about this final stage of qualifying’s theme song. One idea - if diplomatic tensions with Russia continue to rise, the 2018 World Cup might not even happen in that part of the world. So... 
 Not the first half Australia would have wanted. Iraq stuck to their task from the opening whistle and pressed the Socceroos into a catalogue of mistakes. Leckie’s header against the post was the big moment but Iraq probably should have had a penalty at the other end. Plenty for Postecoglou to ponder. I’ll see you in a few minutes for the second half. HALF TIME | It's all square at the break. Who has impressed in the opening 45? #GoSocceroos #AUSvIRQ pic.twitter.com/HEPR65fDT5 Updated