The top two in League One both drew while AFC Wimbledon managed their first win of the season, while Luton go top of League Two after beating Wycombe 4-1 
 There was an abandonment we missed earlier: Newport v Barnet was 0-1 at half-time, but the pitch was declared unplayable and they’ll have to go again.  
 The FA Cup results are coming through: with 114 games there’s probably not space for them here, but you can watch them all click in here. 
 A quirk here, for you: @NickMiller79 One for the football buffs. Two players with the same name, Danny Rowe, have scored for Macclesfield Town and AFC Fylde today. 
 Another team who have wrapped up three points (probably) is Plymouth: an injury time strike by Sonny Bradley makes it 1-0 over Cheltenham.  
 Dominic Poleon has scored for Wimbledon! That’s 2-1 to them over Chesterfield at Kingsmeadow and they’re heading for their first win of the season.  Updated
 Another one for Luton: Jordan Cook makes it 4-1 and they’re shimmying to the top of the table in some style.  Updated
 And that would seem to be that at Kenilworth Road: Danny Hylton rounds off a hat-trick with a goal from the penalty spot, and they’re going top of the table.  
 Crewe could well have nabbed a winner against Doncaster: James Jones has scored with three minutes left to make it 2-1.  
 A sniff of a chance for Oldham: Lee Erwin has just made it Latics 2-3 Shrewsbury, with about ten minutes to go.  
 And that’s six for Stevenage: Matt Godden has this one, and it’s the pits of despair for Hartlepool. Meanwhile Colin Daniel has his second for Blackpool, who lead Yeovil 2-0.  
 A brief excursion into the Scottish Irn-Bru Cup, where Alan Cook has scored for Stenhousemuir. The problem for them is Queen of the South have scored 7 (seven).  
 All going wrong for Coventry: Martin Woolford has made it 2-0 to Fleetwood. As things stand the Sky Blues will go bottom of the table on goal difference.  
 Port Vale’s glimmer of hope has had a bucket of icy water thrown over it: it’s 4-1 to Bury now, as a deflected shot by Hallam Hope loops over the keeper and in.  
 A belter in Colchester: Exeter have come from behind to lead the home side 3-2, Joel Grant scoring the goal four minutes after coming on as a sub. 
 HOLD YOUR HORSES THERE LUTON FANS: Matt Bloomfield has got a goal back for Wycombe, against the run of play. But them’s the breaks.  
 Port Vale have grabbed one back: Nathan Smith has one for them to make it Bury 3-1 Vale. Meanwhile Blackpool could have a win, as Colin Daniel gives them the lead at Yeovil. Meanwhile it’s turning into a rout at Stevenage, as Tyler Walker bags a second of the day and they lead Hartlepool 4-1. 
 Looks like Luton are going to take advantage of Morecambe’s slip, if slip they do: Danny Hylton has his second and they lead Wycombe 2-0.  
 Parity didn’t last too long in Morecambe: Leyton Orient have re-taken the lead through a deflected Jordan Bowery effort. Meanwhile Stevenage are now 3-1 up over Hartlepool, Dean Wells with the goal.  Updated
 Goal for Bolton, and it sounds a reasonably controversial one: Southend keeper Ted Smith seemed to be fouled, but nothing was given and Keshi Anderson put the ball home.  
 And another equaliser, this time in one of the bigger games in League Two, as Kevin Ellison brings Morecambe level against Leyton Orient. 
 Second 45s starting now, and Bradford are still beating Millwall 1-0, but more importantly their away kit is an absolute smasher. Updated
 Here’s a stat for you... Leyton Orient have now gone 62 league games since drawing 0-0 – the longest run of any team in the EFL. #LOFC pic.twitter.com/GHIrsPIaP5 
 “Kanu hat-trick in the Arsenal-Milan middle-aged men’s game,” writes Charles Antaki. “Impossible to watch this without a smile; these fellows are as clearly enjoying themselves as they are keen to win. A treat for any of us who remember them from the first time round. Oh and Ljunberg and Pires have just combined to score. Lovely.” It’s 4-1 to the arl’ Gunners.  Updated
 Stevenage had fallen behind to Hartlepool, but two fairly quick goals and they’re 2-1 ahead, the second coming from a brilliant overhead kick by Tyler Walker (son of Des), who’s on loan from Nottingham Forest.  
 And some more FA Cup GOALS GOALS GOALS... @NickMiller79 2 goals in 3 minutes https://t.co/ecITudmUng @NickMiller79 Slough Town 3-0 Chipstead - two for Charlie Moone and one for Warren Harris on his 100th appearance. 
 Opener in the big game at the Den: Bradford are 1-0 up after Millwall’s Byron Webster has put through his own goal.  
 More woe for Wimbledon: they’re still without a win this season and they’ll have to come from behind to notch one today: they’re 1-0 down to a Darius Charles own-goal against Chesterfield.  
 Surprise scoreline in League Two: leaders Morecambe have gone behind to Leyton Orient, Liam Kelly notching that one for the visitors.  
 Eventful stuff at Luton - Danny Hylton gave them the lead after ten minutes, but Cameron McGeehan has just missed a penalty for the Hatters.  And it’s raining both rain and goals at Bury - Vaughan’s bagged another and it’s 3-0 now.  Updated
 A few goals in the FA Cup preliminaries: Bognor Regis are already 2-0 up over Guildford City, Halesowen are 1-0 up over Coleshill, and Squires Gate have taken the lead against Handsworth Parramore. That last one sounds more like a broad-chested stud in a Jilly Cooper novel than a football club, but there you go. 
 Bury, who hadn’t exactly started the season in flying style, have however made a ripping start to their home game against Port Vale - Jacob Mellis, former Chelsea youngster, has added to James Vaughan’s opener. 2-0 to the Shakers.  Updated
 And Portsmouth have doubled that lead, as Gary Roberts takes advantage of a stinking rick in the Crawley defence to double their lead. Meanwhile Ryan Lowe, 79, has bagged to give Crewe at 1-0 lead at Doncaster.  
 Couple of early goals at Colchester v Exeter in League Two: Sammie Szmodics has just equalised after Robbie Simpson put Exeter ahead. And down on the coast, Portsmouth are 1-0 up over Crawley after Curtis Main bagged for them.  
 Oh, and there is the first one: John Akinde has bagged the opener for Barnet, who thus lead Newport 1-0.  And another! Southend have taken a surprise lead at Bolton, Harry Kyprianou has put them 1-0 up, and on his league debut too. That’s his second goal after bagging in that stupid cup in mid-week, too.  Updated
 At the risk of sounding like a local radio presenter, if you’re at a game for Non-League Day, we’d very much like to hear from you. Like this guy... Football on White Hart Lane today @HaringeyBoroFC @NickMiller79 #NonLeagueDay2016 pic.twitter.com/QQkaEhaHCO 
 Well look at this here... Kingstonian’s opponent in the first round of the FA Cup have Stefan Freund’s son in goal. Magic. 
 At Stevenage v Hartlepool today, where it is good to see home manager and captain are on the exact same wavelength pic.twitter.com/H67jv4voVR 
 Games of the day in Leagues One and Two? Bolton v Southend, the latter having not started the season especially well (read: they’ve only won one game from five), should be decent, while Millwall v Bradford will be t-t-t-t-t-tasty too. In League Two leaders Morecambe host the pulsing shambles that is Leyton Orient, Cambridge remain the last team in the division looking for a win and they’ll be after it at Mansfield, while Carlisle protect the last unbeaten record in the division at home to Accrington Stanley. 
 However, it’s been a bit of a struggle for one former Gooner... Ray Parlour, two pints deep at 11am this morning, staggers off the pitch after 8mins. Glorious. 
 While all this competitive football is going on, there’s also a charity jolly at the Emirates, as some Arsenal old boys take on their equivalents from Milan. Would you look at that Milan team... ...and these are the teams. pic.twitter.com/ouxYSzqLXr 
 The early game between Peterborough and Swindon has just finished, and it’s been a good ‘un. Under the watchful eye and brilliant white teeth of Brendan Rodgers (his son plays for Swindon), it ended 2-2 at a soggy London Road, Posh twice taking the lead through Gwion Edwards and a Marcus Maddison penalty, but were twice pegged back, through Michael Doughty from the spot and a Jack Baldwin ogger.  
 Life at Bolton has been pretty grim of late. From the dropping down of divisions from first the top flight, then the second, now into the third, to the crippling financial problems of the last couple of years and the death of their chairman Phil Gartside. Grim, grim, grim. But there is some bright among the dark, and they have at least started this season in fine style. They’re top of League One, unbeaten and would’ve been the proud parents of a healthy, bouncing 100% record were it not for a last-minute equaliser by Charlton last weekend. Optimism in League One is a tricky thing, but they’re getting there. Another team who haven’t exactly been cartwheeling their way through life at the moment is Bradford, but again the early signs are good. Having dropped down to League Two for a spell, they are inching their way back up, and all under Stuart McCall, club hero who frankly wasn’t much good in his first spell at Valley Parade. And then at the other end of things there’s Wimbledon, finding life tricky in the third tier, stone bottom of the table without a win from their five games yet, although they could be a little closer to getting their old home, Plough Lane, back. All human life is here. This is the Football League, a grubby and often unpleasant place to be, but by gosh it still matters to plenty of people. The shinier football is taking a break for a weekend, so let us have a look at what’s happening down the ladder. In the absence of that top-flight stuff it’s also Non-League Day today, where you’re encouraged to get down to your local club outside the top four divisions, and while we would obviously not recommend you divert your attention from this fine liveblog for a second, there’s still time to bob down to your local club. Don’t know where that is? Through the magic of the internet superhighway, you can find out. Surf this way.  Finally, it’s a long way from the smooth pitch of Wembley and even the dog days of January when most people start paying attention, but the FA Cup begins today. Well, sort of. The first game in the first round qualifying was last night, as South Park beat Dorking Wanderers 2-1. And then of course there was the preliminary round before that. And the extra preliminary round before that. So apart from that...the FA Cup begins today! There are 114 matches taking place today so, we’ll level with you, we’re not going to be keeping track of every one, but if there are any notable ones you’d like to be kept abreast of, or would like to update us on, do drop me a line on Nick.Miller@theGuardian.com, or @NickMiller79. 