 With their players dropping like hamstrung flies and reinforcements urgently required in the heart of their defence, it’s no surprise that today’s Rumour Mill leads with talk linking Liverpool with a couple of centre-halves. “In this moment with no centre-back fit, I would say it is a situation where we have to think about going into the transfer market,” said Jürgen Klopp after losing another couple of players to injury during the Capital One Cup match against Stoke on Tuesday, so it’s no great surprise to hear talk that his trusted former Borussia Dortmund lieutenant Neven Subotic could be on his way to Anfield on loan. A Serb who was forced to spend most of his childhood in Germany and the USA, Subotic was a stalwart of Klopp’s Dortmund team at the Westfalenstadion, having followed him there from Mainz. Should talks between Dortmund and Liverpool go well, the classy 27-year-old could find himself lining up for his former manager at a third different club. Liverpool are also making enquiries about Internazionale defender Andrea Ranocchia and could also attempt to sign Joël Matip from Schalke now instead of next summer, as seems to have been their original intention. Ranocchia had also been the subject of a flirtatious come-on from Norwich, who will move for Wolfsburg central defender Timm Klose after having their advances rebuffed. Various media outlets are reporting Manchester United have failed in their attempt to sign Sadio Mané from Southampton despite their best attempts to sort out a deal. While the winger has made no secret of his desire to move on, his employers insist he is not for sale. Expect this particular dance between the two clubs to continue for another few weeks. While yesterday’s Rumour Mill suggested Newcastle were hopeful of signing Alexandre Lacazette from Lyon, today’s can reveal the Ligue 1 side accepted a £22m bid from their Premier League counterparts. Sadly for Newcastle, Mr Lacazette or his people have presumably taken a peek at the table and decided an immediate future spent mired in a relegation battle would be no future at all. In-form, top-knotastic Stoke City striker Marko Arnautovic has rejected the offer of a new and apparently not-improved-enough contract at Stoke City, who may be displeased to hear rumours Paris Saint-Germain are scouting the 26-year-old who has 18 months left on his contract at the Britannia. PSG remain strongly linked with Chelsea’s Eden Hazard, who it seems will have his pick of Europe’s elite clubs in the likely event of his departure from Stamford Bridge next summer … if not sooner. Pep Guardiola remains in charge at Bayern Munich but that hasn’t stopped The Sun publishing his Manchester City shopping list for next season: David Alaba, Gerard Piqué, Lionel Messi and Paul Pogba are just a handful of the obscure emerging talents to feature. Pep will also take the moon in a bucket but only if it happens to be blue. The moon, that is. Not the bucket. The Rumour Mill isn’t about to pretend it reads Turkish daily newspaper Sabah over breakfast, but we can reveal they happen to think Chelsea striker Loïc Rémy, already a target for Newcastle, is wanted by Galatasaray on a loan deal until the end of the season. Elsewhere in Turkey, Lig TV have reported Liverpool will sell Lazar Markovic to Fenerbahce for £7.3m once the Serbia winger’s loan deal expires at the end of the season. Stephan El Shaarawy at Bournemouth: did we ever think we’d see the day? Almost certainly not is the answer to that particular query but it just might be approaching. The 23-year-old Milan striker is enduring an unsuccessful loan spell at Monaco and Milan are listening to offers for the man they call The Pharoah. It is believed Bournemouth have offered to take El Shaarwy on loan with a view to signing him for £10m come season’s end if they avoid relegation, although the player would rather return to Italy where Roma are hopeful of securing his scrawl. On loan at Southampton from QPR, Steven Caulker is also having a tough time of it, having started only one Premier League match for the Saints this season. With everyone concerned agreed he’s in need of a fresh start elsewhere, Crystal Palace and Bournemouth are preparing to duke it out in the hope of winning his affection. That’s Crystal Palace who have already had £15m worth of overtures for Sporting’s Algerian striker Islam Slimani firmly rejected. And finally, out-of-favour Spurs winger Andros Townsend is the subject of interest from West Brom and Watford, while Norwich aren’t prepared to let Nathan Redmond leave for Crystal Palace, who seem determined to hog this paragraph, for a penny less than £15m. 