 Roberto Martínez is playing down Everton’s excellent recent record against Manchester United at home – the past three meetings at Goodison have all been won, dating back to the defeat that opened Sir Alex Ferguson’s final season in charge – by claiming that history means very little when top sides play each other. For similar reasons the Everton manager is not paying too much attention to United’s last result either, describing the 3-0 mauling at Arsenal as “a hiccup”. Louis van Gaal appeared to have either his tactics or his selection wrong on that occasion, exposing Bastian Schweinsteiger and Michael Carrick to Arsenal’s pace through the middle, though Martínez believes the United manager now has a good idea of his best side. As with Everton, it will be one set up to keep hold of the ball and play a patient, possession-based game. “United now seem to have an understanding of what their manager wants, the concept is clear,” Martínez said. “Under their new manager they have been adjusting to changes for a while but they have a settled starting XI now, and though the first half-hour against Arsenal might have been a bit of a hiccup a squad of their quality can compete for anything in this league. “I think it is important to respect the present United side, but equally they will know what we are capable of as well. When big sides visit Goodison the atmosphere goes up a notch and my players respond. When the crowd pushes you on you feel you can cope with any challenge.” While there are some obvious differences in revenue and spending power between the clubs, the managers have more in common than might be imagined. Martínez tried to set up a loan move for Anthony Martial, then at Monaco, in January last year, but was turned down and Everton ended up with Lacina Traoré instead. Apart from an admiration for technical players and ball retention, it turns out Martínez also shares Van Gaal’s enthusiasm for Wayne Rooney as the focal point of the side. Even the Wayne Rooney who is struggling for goals as well as fitness. The United captain missed both of England’s games over the international break and may not recover in time to face his former club on Saturday, and his absence would come as a relief to the Everton manager. “I wish Wayne a speedy recovery but from an Everton point of view I would prefer him not to play,” Martínez said. “I think United are a stronger team when he is in the side, even if he is not getting among the goals. When you watch Rooney play you realise he contributes a lot more than goalscoring, that is only part of his game. He is a leader on the pitch, he can see a pass and he can find space. I completely understand why Louis van Gaal would want to make him captain. He is an outstanding footballer.” Inevitably that led to Martínez being asked whether he would like to see Rooney back in an Everton shirt one day, a question the manager chose to laugh off. “I don’t know if there are any more testimonials coming up,” he said, referring to Rooney’s return to Goodison to appear in Duncan Ferguson’s testimonial in August. “He is the captain of Manchester United and we need to be respectful of that.” Martínez will decide over the next day or so whether John Stones has sufficient match fitness to appear against United. The defender has missed Everton’s last two games and was unable to join up with England owing to a knee injury, but is now back training with the rest of the squad. “Medically, he is fine,” Martínez said. “Whether he is ready to come straight into an important game is more difficult to assess, but he has a chance.” Martínez can call on Seamus Coleman after the full-back’s return from injury with the Republic of Ireland over the weekend. The manager might have been annoyed had the player aggravated his hamstring injury through being rushed back too quickly, though as he came through the match against Poland without any problems he feels the game time will be useful in terms of being ready for United. “Seamus is a bonus,” Martínez said. “To have him back fit with 90 minutes under his belt already is fantastic for us.” One Everton player certain to start against United is Ross Barkley, arguably the best England performer in the two most recent internationals. Martínez has just urged Roy Hodgson, who cannot seem to decide his best position, to stick him anywhere but just make sure he plays, so there seems little prospect of Everton resting him. “The best position for Ross is on the pitch,” Martínez said. “When you have an outstanding talent like that you just need to fit it into a team. It is clear he is a sensational prospect, and I am a little surprised at all the hype his England performances have attracted. We’ve seen Ross hitting that level at Everton since the first day of the season.” 