 Barcelona resumed their La Liga campaign after the winter break with a disappointing 1-1 draw at Villarreal, leaving Luis Enrique’s champions five points behind the in-form leaders, Real Madrid. Zinedine Zidane’s side equalled Barcelona’s Spanish record of 39 games unbeaten in all competitions by swatting aside Granada 5-0 on Saturday. Barcelona needed to respond at Villarreal but they required a superb, late Lionel Messi free-kick to salvage a draw, after a fine Nicola Sansone strike gave the home side the lead in the second half. Fresh from the midweek Copa del Rey first-leg loss at Athletic Bilbao, the draw at Villarreal leaves Barcelona third in the table, a point behind Sevilla and five off Real Madrid, who also have a game in hand. “I can’t make a positive evaluation because we needed the three points today,” said Luis Enrique. “We aren’t on a very favourable run at the moment and although we kept hitting the target things just would not fall for us. “Of course, there is still time to catch Real. We’re going to have opportunities to fight for the league, although that will not just depend on us but also on them, and they are looking very strong at the moment.” Athletic were unable to follow up the 2-1 Copa del Rey triumph by beating neighbouring Alavés. The hosts enjoyed the majority of possession and shots at San Mamés, but the match ended in a 0-0 draw as Alavés extended their unbeaten La Liga run to a fifth match. Real Betis won their first top-flight meeting with Leganes as their fine home form under Victor Sánchez continued. Ruben Castro opened the scoring six minutes after half-time and Cristiano Piccini wrapped up a 2-0 victory late on, meaning the Andalusians have yet to lose at Estadio Benito Villamarín in four matches under Sánchez. Celta Vigo won their sixth home match in seven as Malága were overcome 3-1. Iago Aspas’s seventh-minute strike put the hosts ahead before Daniel Wass and Andreu Fontas put Celta further in front. Wass’s late own goal cost Eduardo Berizzo’s team a clean sheet. 