• Denmark striker’s treble sees off Eddie Howe’s side after extra time• 10-man Reading win at Brighton while Newcastle get revenge Press Association 
 The Preston North End striker Simon Makienok scored a hat-trick to knock Premier League side Bournemouth out of the EFL Cup 3-2 after extra time at the Vitality Stadium. Makienok had given Simon Grayson’s Championship strugglers the lead after just 10 minutes, beating Adam Federici at his near post. Bournemouth were level eight minutes into the second half when Lewis Grabban scored from the penalty spot after Ben Pringle was judged to have handled Max Gradel’s free-kick. Dan Gosling then nudged Eddie Howe’s team ahead after 76 minutes when he scored from close range. However Preston fought back to equalise with five minutes left when Makienok, who is on loan from Palermo after spending last season with Charlton, glanced in a header from Chris Humphrey’s cross. The Denmark international then won the game for the visitors after 111 minutes when he stabbed the ball over Federici. Reading had Tyler Blackett sent off but went on to eliminate Brighton & Hove Albion with a 2-1 win at the Amex Stadium. Jaap Stam’s side took the lead on 32 minutes through a close-range volley from the Republic of Ireland international Stephen Quinn, but had Blackett, who joined them from Manchester United last month, dismissed just before half-time for a late challenge on Sébastien Pocognoli . Reading, though, found themselves 2-0 up early in the second half when the midfielder John Swift, who signed in the summer from Chelsea, scored his second goal in three days, on 54 minutes. Brighton reduced the deficit through Tomer Hemed with five minutes left, but could not conjure an equaliser to force extra-time. Newcastle United avenged last Saturday’s Championship home defeat against Wolverhampton Wanderers with a 2-0 win against them in the re-run at St James’ Park. The Magpies – beaten 2-0 by Walter Zenga’s side at the weekend – took the lead in the 29th minute through Matt Ritchie’s deft finish and the midfielder set up the second two minutes later for Yoan Gouffran to spectacularly volley home. At Elland Road Leeds United  defeated Blackburn Rovers 1-0 with a late goal from Chris Wood, who bundled the ball in on 85 minutes. 