 Neil Lennon said he was thrilled to be in the fourth round of the FA Cup and looking forward to a sizeable crowd for the home tie in the next round against Leeds, though the Bolton manager made no secret of the fact that MK Dons in the league on Saturday remains the priority. After scoring the equaliser against non-league Eastleigh in the first tie 10 days ago, Darren Pratley was Bolton’s hero again in a week when the club was given a stay of execution over their unpaid tax bills. “Hopefully this win can lift everyone because we have a really important game coming up,” Lennon said. “We scored three goals for the first time in a while, too, so that might give us some sort of psychological boost. We’ll take anything that’s going at the moment, with the situation we are in. It’s really difficult, every day seems to bring some new challenge but at least the players are still performing. “We were a bit pedestrian to start off with but we soon got a wake up call and I was pleased with the reaction. We saw the game out comfortably in the end and now we can look forward to the next round. We should all be excited but it is not really like that at the moment, it’s very, very hard. Managing in these circumstances is difficult. I honestly don’t know if this makes any difference to our financial circumstances in terms of some of the deals we are trying to set up this month but the long-term future of the club is obviously paramount and that is what we are trying to secure. This win should help, and if we can get another one on Saturday it will be great.” The Eastleigh manager, Chris Todd, was also pleased with his side’s performance, for slightly different reasons. “This is a long way to come in the competition for us, and after playing like that against a Championship side I am as proud as Punch,” he said. “We wanted to create some memories for ourselves and we’ve certainly done that. It’s incredible what has happened to this club in a short period of time. We’ve really put ourselves on the map.We game with a gameplan and stuck to it, even took an early lead, and while we might not have got the result we wanted I can’t take anything away from the players. Neil Lennon was very complimentary afterwards and Shola Ameobi came over to tell me I was in charge of a really good team. That meant a lot, coming from a player I normally watch and admire on Match of the Day, but I know there is good talent in this side. We have just shown a whole lot more people what we can do.” 