 As the ripples from Novak Djokovic's defeat were being felt all around the All England Club, Roger Federer prepared for his second-round match against Robin Soderling in the knowledge that his scheduled semi-final opponent was already out. Just as he had done against Dominik Hrbaty in the previous round, Federer made light work of a potentially difficult opponent by taking care of Soderling 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 on Centre Court and thus temporarily silencing the relentless chatter about whether his rapier skills have been blunted by the bout of glandular fever he suffered at the start of this year. So far he has shown very few hints of weakness, aside from dropping his serve to go 5-2 down in the third set yesterday, a lapse which was soon rectified with a few dashes of the delicately spiced shotmaking and casual elegance which have brought him five Wimbledon titles. "I was relieved because it could easily have gone four sets," said Federer. "I think I played well. I'm moving well and I'm feeling good." Next up is Marc Gicquel, who came back from two sets down to beat Ilia Bozoljac 4-6, 5-7, 7-6, 7-6, 6-3. Lleyton Hewitt is not a man for cardigans, nor does he have much time for the sort of namby-pamby injuries. It would take more than a blistered toe or a sore thumb to stop Hewitt playing if he had a mind to, which is why he is playing this Wimbledon with a hip injury.  "Unless it got to the stage where I actually couldn't walk out there I'm gonna keep trying," said Hewitt. "I've played with pain before. As long as it doesn't get too much worse, you know, I can handle it." Since he won his only Wimbledon title in 2002 Hewitt has spent much of his time battling against a succession of niggling physical problems. He is still relatively young at 27 but he first qualified for the Australian Open as a 15-year-old and has spent the past 12 years playing a game which is labour-intensive and emotionally draining. There may not be much running left in those once quick legs of his, however, which would explain why he seems to be so intent on giving Wimbledon at least one more tilt. His cause was helped considerably by the defeat of the No15 seed Fernando Gonzalez. The Chilean, a former Australian Open finalist, lost 7-6, 7-6, 3-6, 7-6 to Simone Bolelli of Italy who, on paper at least, should be a far easier draw. 