 It is not unusual for Maria Sharapova's father Yuri to work himself into a lather, but there were more reasons than normal for the volatile Russian to be frothing in the front row here yesterday.  First, his title-defending daughter was getting her second serve chewed up by Samantha Stosur, a little-known Australian who has yet to crack the top 50 and was much closer to upsetting the Wimbledon champion than the 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 scoreline suggests. Second, Sharapova's difficulties at the DFS Classic worsened bizarrely after a waitress fell through tarpaulin by a hospitality tent and dropped 12 feet to the ground by the side of the centre court. This brought a five-minute delay while the unconscious woman was placed on a stretcher and taken to hospital, and then a sudden, dangerous surge from Stosur. She took the next four points, broke the Sharapova serve and held on to capture the second set. Worse still from the Russian viewpoint, Stosur achieved it with a method which gave her a way of winning the match. Not only was she able to take Sharapova's second delivery early and keep coming in, but she constructed a serve-volley pattern to which there were only limited answers. Once the fragile father frothed a little bit too much for the liking of the veteran umpire Jeremy Shales, who stared at him, looking as though he might be thinking of censure for illegal coaching. It was evident that Yuri Sharapova had his say after the match too. His daughter arrived for the press conference noticeably subdued, despite a characteristically fighting performance which earned her excellent match practice in the art of winning while not at your best. Asked if her father had congratulated her, she became emotional. "Of course he congratulated me - he always does," she said, her voice rising. Then she volunteered that she had been criticised. "He said I didn't push through my serve enough in the second set," she said quietly. "He said there wasn't really much on my serve and that's why she was able to take advantage of it." Nevertheless there was no doubting the daughter's coolness in adversity - all the more conspicuous by contrast with the nearby fulminations - and when she received a slice of luck in the fourth game of the final set she took advantage of it with icy ruthlessness. It came when her service return at deuce hit the tape and fell like a stone on the other side of the net. It gave the chance of a break, which she took with a forehand winner, again off a serve. It created a momentum shift that saw timing return to those fearsome Sharapova ground strokes. "She [Stosur] didn't come into the net like that when I played her here last year," said Sharapova, who admitted she would like to be able to do that herself from time to time. "She's a much better player   than when she used to stay on the baseline. This time she put me under pressure and made me have to make the returns all the time. I enjoy these challenges. That's what it's all about. I might not be playing my best tennis and my opponent might be playing great, and it might come down to the wire, but you have to pull it out and that's what I did." But Stosur's words lingered longer. "Everyone knows what a great hitter of the ball Maria is from the baseline," the 21-year-old from Brisbane said. "But on these courts you have to rush her and not let her get set for a shot, and I did that." It was a message not only as to how Sharapova might be beaten, but that many more players would do better on grass were they to apply themselves more wholeheartedly in this manner. Sharapova next meets Eleni Daniilidou, a former top-20 player who reached the semi-finals here two years ago and again displayed her liking for the Priory Club grass. She also caused a second upset in two days, overcoming the eighth-seeded Ai Sugiyama 6-4, 6-4. After surviving with difficulty against a swarming Australian, Sharapova may now find a 6ft Greek trying to smother the net. 