 Australia's Lleyton Hewitt has perhaps more desire than anyone to succeed in the Masters Cup this week. He won the end-of-season tournament in successive years in Sydney and Shanghai, thereby establishing himself as the world's No 1 in 2001 and 2002 and the successor to Pete Sampras.  Last year, when it switched to Texas, the self-styled "space city of infinite possibilities", Hewitt was nowhere to be seen, having dropped out of the top 10, and even temporarily relinquished his position as the top-ranked Australian to Mark Philippoussis.  This fall from grace followed his decision to all but turn his back on the tour and concentrate on winning the Davis Cup, and Australia defeated Spain in the Melbourne final. Now he is back if not quite with the bang of before, at least with a fair-sized detonation.  The man who has stood in his way this year, and that of just about everybody else, is Switzerland's Roger Federer, who beat him in the fourth round of the Australian Open, the Wimbledon quarter-finals, and the final of the US Open. No shame in that but Hewitt is not a man to let the grass grow under his feet, and he will be looking for a reversal in fortune today when he meets the world No1 to decide the leadership of the red group.  Yesterday Hewitt completed his rain-delayed match against Spain's Carlos Moya, winning 6-7, 6-2, 6-4. For the time being the tournament is just about on schedule, but the forecast is not encouraging.  The match was on serve in the first set when it was called off close to midnight on Monday. When Moya, who will lead Spain against the US in the Davis Cup final next month, took the tie-break on the resumption Hewitt's entourage shuffled its feet uneasily.  In 2002, when Hewitt was on top of the world, Moya beat him four times in five meetings. The Spaniard's heavy top spin had left Hewitt floundering time and again, and his huge forehand pounded numerous winners again yesterday. The difference here was that the 23-year-old Australian served much better, frequently aceing Moya, while he controlled the rallies more intelligently.  Hewitt has climbed back into the world's top five, and believes he can overtake Andy Roddick to clinch the end-of-season No2 spot. A glorious top-spin lop, coupled with running forehand and backhand passes, were the pick of his shots in the third set, when Moya became ever more disgruntled with the line calls.  In the first of the blue group round-robin matches Russia's Marat Safin defeated Guillermo Coria of Argentina 6-1, 6-4.  Maria Sharapova capped her year by fighting back to overcome the injured Serena Williams 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 in the final of the WTA Tour Championships in Los Angeles. 