 Britain may not have had a Wimbledon ladies' champion since 1977 nor a men's since 1936. But the world's oldest tennis tournament wins game, set and match when it comes to global marketing . As home fans troop to London SW19, hoping Andy Murray can defy the odds to win this quintessentially English event, few may realise that it is the young people of Japan and China who hold the cash key to realising British dreams of a successor to Virginia Wade and Fred Perry. Last year the All-England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, which runs the tournament, gave the Lawn Tennis Association £26.3m, over half the governing body's income, showing how vital Wimbledon is to the search for a British champion. Wimbledon started trading in China six years ago and now has 34 shops there in 14 cities, including two outlets in Beijing. In Japan, where Wimbledon's commercial appeal has been exploited for longer, the club hosts regular "Wimbledon fairs", exhibiting tournament merchandise.  The most recent one attracted 14,000 people. Last year 350,000 pairs of branded Wimbledon sports shoes were sold in Japan, compared to "low four figures" through the All-England club's retail outlets in the UK. In India, firms licensed to make Wimbledon-branded merchandise include high-end jewellers Gitanjali. And this month a partnership was announced with India's TVS Motors to produce scooters: the green, purple and white Wimbledon Class and the Wimbledon Xtreme, "an exciting red scooter with graffiti art capturing the excitement of tennis". Wimbledon has licensing deals with 26 companies globally and, nearer to home, 15 official "suppliers" to the championships can associate themselves with the crossed rackets logo. These run from Blossom Hill for wine to Slazenger for balls (an arrangement dating back to 1902), parts of a package designed to retain "the unique image and character" of Wimbledon by not commercialising the grounds overtly. Most recent holders of a slice of the iconic image are Evian, official bottled water (Robinsons has been the official still soft drink since 1934), and HSBC, the official bank. Its group head of sponsorship, Giles Morgan, says the tournament is "a bastion for sporting ethics and tradition for doing things the right way ... The Wimbledon championships is one of the most recognisable sporting events in the world, broadcast in over 150 countries to a global audience of more than 2 billion over the fortnight". Closer to home, and opening its doors for the first time today in the Centre Court building, will be a superstore where fans can choose a Ralph Lauren Wimbledon-branded tennis sweater in "herbal milk" for £200, ladies' designer sunglasses for £82, "court classic" holdalls for £40 or - last year's favourite - mini tennis ball key rings for £3. This will bring the number of merchandise outlets on the site to 15.  No one will say what the event costs to stage, but total prize money is about £11.8m, with the men's and ladies' singles champions each receiving £750,000. A Centre Court ticket for the men's final costs £91, but income from the global TV audiences will dwarf that provided by the 450,000 spectators in SW19.  The surpluses (Wimbledon-speak for profits) go to the LTA under a 1934 agreement guaranteeing the club the right to host the championships. In 1980, the sum was £420,000, so last year's £26.3m shows just how much the global marketing reach has increased Wimbledon's income.  Roger McCowen, marketing director at the All-England club, says: "Merchandising is very small in the context of the income from our TV rights and our big official suppliers, but the difference is in the geographical reach, the 52-week awareness, the brand extension." New media has opened other income streams. Subscription to Wimbledon Live for the fortnight allows fans to see live and on-demand action on their computers. "We have also done perhaps 10 or 20 different mobile phone deals and smaller broadband deals in different markets for companies to acquire material - highlights, interviews or material from our very rich archive," says McCowen. 