 Venus Williams retained her Wimbledon title today in characteristically powerful fashion when she beat Belgium's Justine Henin 6-1, 3-6, 6-0 in front of a packed centre court. The No. 2 seed breezed through the first set in 20 minutes before Henin, age 19 and the first Belgian - man or woman - ever to reach a Wimbledon final, hit back with some powerful ground strokes to tie the match. Williams' power took control again in the third set however as she broke three times, winning the title again when Henin, under pressure on the baseline, was unable to control her shot and fired it tamely wide. Williams started the final with two double faults and didn't get her first serve in until the fifth point when she served an ace. But she won four points in a row to hold serve. Eighth-seeded Henin, who had beaten Williams 6-1, 6-4 on their only previous meeting on clay in Berlin in May, served two aces in a confident first service game. Williams captured five break points in the fourth game but Henin, with her powerful and accurate hitting from the baseline, saved four. Williams gained the break with a stop volley at the net to lead 3-1 and then served out for a 4-1 lead helped by a call in her favor that would have given Henin a 30-15 lead. Williams pounced on Henin errors in to break again and move 5-1, Henin netting a forehand on break point and then gained three set points with her powerful serves. The defending champion squandered the first when she fired a backhand wide but, when Henin sent up a lob under pressure, Williams clinched the set in 20 minutes with an easy smash. Williams had a set point at 2-2 in the second set when Henin double faulted and then fired a forehand into the net. But she squandered it with a wild forehand out and the Belgian, who came from a set down to Jennifer Capriati in the semifinal, won two more points to go 3-2 ahead. After a 15-minute rain delay, both players held before Williams fired a backhand wide to hand two break points to the Belgian and, when the defending champion netted another, Henin led 5-3.  When Williams put another backhand out, Henin had two set points and, luring the American to the net, punched a backhand past her to take the set. After holding in the opening game of the deciding set, Williams broke in the second. Although Henin saved two break points to twice bring the game back to deuce, she surrendered a third by netting a low backhand and, under pressure from the Williams groundstrokes, she netted another. Williams then powered to a 5-0 lead. And she was to break again in the sixth game, Henin's third double fault followed by two netted forehands giving Williams two championship points. Although Henin saved the first with a service winner, the defending champion clinched the title at the second time of asking. 