 Sidney Wood, who has died in Florida aged 97, was the first, and remains the only, player to win the Wimbledon men's title on a walkover. It so offended his sense of fair play that he refused to accept the trophy straight away. Wood, who was 19 at the time, was due to play his fellow American Frank Shields in the 1931 final. The match never took place because Shields injured an ankle in the semi-finals and was pulled out of the final by US team officials so as not to aggravate the injury before a Davis Cup tie. "It was the most stupid affront to Wimbledon you could imagine," Wood said, in his quietly humorous way, years later. "Frank and I had even played a doubles match between his semi-final against Jean Borotra and his being pulled out of the final, but the Davis Cup committee were a bunch of old guys with badges, and you know what badge-wearers are." Wood, an elegant, athletic player, gave the trophy to a female camp follower of American tennis to keep until he and Shields met in a grass-court event to settle who was better on that surface. It was three years before this happened. Wood won, but said it was a further six months before the custodian of the cup handed it back to him. "She liked me, but she liked Frank more," he said of his darkly handsome rival, whose granddaughter, Brooke Shields, was later to become famous. Wood was born in Black Rock, Connecticut, and educated at the Hill school, in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. A rather sickly child, he later moved with his family to Tucson, Arizona, in the hope his health would improve in the warmer climate. When he was 12, his life was transformed after his uncle, Watson Washburn, a Davis Cup team member, introduced him to tennis. He won the Arizona state men's tournament on his 14th birthday, which qualified him for the French championship and, subsequently, to a place at Wimbledon.  He first appeared there in 1927 when he was 15 years, 231 days old - the youngest male to compete at the championships, a record that is unlikely to be broken. It was, though, a chastening experience. Drawn against one of the greatest players of the day, the Frenchman René Lacoste, in the first round, he lost in straight sets, winning only five games, on centre court. Had Wood's great natural ability been matched by a less carefree attitude to competition, he might have achieved far more in the way of titles. Insouciant, his personality was the opposite of one of his keenest rivals, the Englishman Fred Perry. He played Perry five times in important matches and beat him twice, including in the semi-final that took him to the 1931 Wimbledon final. It was a match Wood remembered with particular fondness because of his friendship at the time with Gertrude Lawrence, who was a huge star of stage and screen on both sides of the Atlantic. "Every single day, she and Noël Coward [whose Private Lives was thought to be about Lawrence] would pick me up in the Bentley from the Grosvenor House Hotel and we would drive down together to the tennis," he said.  "Gertie would wave this little lace handkerchief and I would look up and I didn't even know Fred was on the other side of the court. It sounds ridiculous these days, doesn't it?" The 1931 Wimbledon title was Wood's only major singles title. The nearest he came to winning another was when he finished runner-up in the 1935 US championships at Forest Hills, New York. He represented the US in seven Davis Cup ties but had a disappointing 5-6 record in singles matches. He was ranked in the top 10 in the US 10 times from 1930 to 1945, reaching number two in 1934. He was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1964 and had been its oldest member until his death. A man of great charm, Wood remained active well into his 90s with his business ventures. He is credited with inventing the portable synthetic playing surface Supreme Court - and writing projects. "I have a bloody mary at one o'clock," he said. "That keeps me awake." He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Patricia, three sons and two stepdaughters. His eldest son, Sidney Wood III, died in 1961. • Sidney Burr Beardslee Wood, tennis player, born 1 November 1911; died 10 January 2009 