 Andre Agassi yesterday criticised Gustavo Kuerten, the world No1, for supporting a players' threat to boycott Wimbledon, and entered the controversy over the seedings by supporting the All England club's policy of calculating them according to the player's ability on grass. "I think a talented player like Gustavo, who is great for the game, should continue to add to it by competing under any conditions. A boycott's not the way to go about it," Agassi said. Currently there is still no sign of compromise between the ATP, which wants seeds chosen according to its rankings, and the All England club. There is no doubt which method Agassi, the champion in 1992, supports.  "Wimbledon is Wimbledon for a reason," he asserted. "It has always remained unique and for very specific reasons. If the players boycott you have to give them credit for feeling so strongly. I just feel that these tournaments are so specific to the specialist, whether on clay or on grass, that it requires some assessing. What's happened here (Hamburg), where all top six seeds have gone out, is testament to that," Agassi added.  It was unfortunate that Agassi should be one of them, for the manner of his 6-3, 5-7, 6-4 second-round defeat to the slow-balling Fabrice Santoro was as surprising as the result.  Mr Glitz certainly started without much shine. He was soon a set and a break down, and scurrying between points as though he had an appoint ment to take the absent Steffi Graf to the hairdresser's. He then made a prolonged effort to get back into the match, recovered to lead 4-1 in the final set, and still lost it, delivering a double fault on the point which gave Santoro the crucial break.  "I worked hard for two hours and then played just a few bad points and it cost me the match," said Agassi, whose last outing this was before the French Open.  Last month some of the players were saying that Agassi's 136-point lead in the ATP Champions Race was already unassailable. Now, after his second early exit in a Masters Series tournament in two weeks, they had better change their minds.  But Tommy Haas's 2-6, 7-6, 7-5 loss to Hicham Arazi in the town in which he was born was more extraordinary than any of the seeds'. Haas has found it difficult enough to fill Boris Becker's boots and now, after failing to take any of nine match points and serving a double fault on the very first one he faced, it will be harder still. 