 With the Williams sisters away, Venus having pulled out last nightafter failing to recover from the stomach injury which troubled her in the Wimbledon final, the mice are set to play when the US Open gets under way at Flushing Meadows on Monday.Yet many of the top players who are hoping to win the title in the absence of the two Americans may be inclined to think that even though the big cats will not be there they still have a rat in their midst.   Belgium's Justine Henin-Hardenne is what the Americans call a tough cookie. She may struggle to reach 5ft 6in in her cotton socks, and weighs in at barely 9st, but the French Open champion has acquired a formidable reputation for taking no prisoners on court while at the same time needling some of her main rivals to the point of fury.  Serena Williams, currently recovering from a knee operation, openly accused Henin-Hardenne of cheating after being beaten in the semi-finals at Roland Garros this year, and Kim Clijsters, who has recently replaced Williams by default as the world No1, pointed the finger of gamesmanship at her fellow Belgian after losing to her this month in the final of the Acura Classic in Carlsbad, California.  Henin-Hardenne remained unrepentant: "I think the other players don't like it that I appear less strong and tall. Mentally it is hard for them to compete against me."  What drove Serena Williams to tears and caused the normally easy-going Clijsters to scowl darkly is Henin-Hardenne's unbending desire to prove herself as good or better than either of them. "I always believe in my chances, and the others don't like it."  The spat with Serena Williams, for which the American exacted swift and complete revenge at Wimbledon, will obviously have no bearing on the US Open. However, the rivalry between Clijsters and Henin-Hardenne, who may well meet in the final a fortnight today, will now be perceived in a new and harsher light after Carlsbad.  Clijsters had won the opening set with relative ease, at which point Henin-Hardenne took an injury time-out to rebandage her blisters. She re-emerged to win 3-6, 6-2, 6-3, prompting Clijsters to complain that her fellow Belgian, who at 21 is a year older, had not been unduly troubled by her feet and took the break to regroup mentally. "It didn't look like it was hurting. She's done it before when we've played. It's a sign she is not at her best and she has to resort to other means."  This was the first time on the professional circuit that the two Belgians have come to verbal blows, although in truth they have never been exactly bosom buddies. There were numerous contretemps in their formative years which were ironed out and glossed over by their respective coaches. In Carlsbad the candid Henin-Hardenne hit the nail on the head when she said the cause of Clijsters' outburst was one of sheer disappointment and frustration - "I totally understand it."  Clijsters has reached the No1 spot ahead of Henin-Hardenne, currently the No3, but she has done it without winning a slam, which in the 28-year history of the women's rankings is unique. And as the US Open favourite she will be reminded of it every time she plays. Henin-Hardenne, well aware of the pressure building on Clijsters, will be out to take full advantage.  American eyes will be on Venus Williams, without a slam title since winning here against her sister in 2001, and New York's darling Jennifer Capriati, who has never won the title. So who will become the favourite of the glitzy, rumbustious New York night sessions and who, in Serena Williams' absence, will be the meanest in the tennis mean streets?  Patrick McEnroe, brother of John and the current US Davis Cup captain, has few doubts: "Henin-Hardenne has to be just licking her chops because she has a dream draw. Mentally, she's the toughest one out there and with Venus and Capriati due to meet in the quarter-finals, she'll only have one of them to face before the final.  "Obviously Kim Clijsters has been the most consistent player, but she's yet to win a big one. I think she's ready but she has lost to Henin-Hardenne in a couple of big matches. Obviously the biggest one was at the finals of the French where she really didn't show up mentally."  Clijsters holds an 8-7 career advantage over Henin-Hardenne, but the latter has won three of their last four encounters. A little surprisingly, neither has gone beyond the quarter-finals at Flushing Meadows but this time, with Serena not there, the stakes are the highest they have ever been.  Current form favours Clijsters, so can she win when she is supposed to? She is unequivocal. "Yes, and I'm definitely looking forward to revenge over Justine if we meet in the final." Henin-Hardenne - tennis's Ms Dynamite - will not be fazed by that. Having won one slam she wants more - and to replace Clijsters as No1. "I didn't use to have the confidence, Now I have." Let the battle of the Belgians commence. 