 Greg Rusedski has overtaken Tim Henman for the most grass-court wins among active players after a three-set victory over Kenneth Carlsen at the Campbell's Hall of Fame Championships in Newport, Rhode Island.  The Briton was forced to battle all the way before overcoming the Dane 4-6, 7-6, 7-6 to back up his first-round win over the French fourth seed Gregory Carraz.  Rusedski, who won the title in 1993 when he played under the Canadian flag, was then told of his achievement after claiming his 75th victory on grass. "Really? Well that's nice to know," Rusedski said. "It's nice to have a positive thing to take home.  "It's a nice thing to have because I still enjoy playing on the grass and it's a style you don't see too much these days.  "I didn't play well to be honest. I thought I played well in the first round against Carraz but Kenneth for most of the first two sets had most of the play and more of the opportunities. Even in the third set he had the break points but I felt like I played two really solid tie-breakers.  "I felt I was the better one in the tie-breakers but, if you go from start to finish in the match, he probably played better tennis. That's the way it goes sometimes."  Rusedski can now look forward to a quarter-final with America's Jeff Morrison, who beat the qualifier Brian Baker in straight sets.  James Blake suffered a setback in his attempted comeback from a neck injury. The second seed was ousted by his fellow American Alex Bogomolov Jr 6-3 6-1.  A finalist here in 2002, Blake injured his neck at the Italia Masters in Rome when he slipped into a net post during a practice session.  The Wimbledon champion Roger Federer overcame rain and the tallest man in tennis to claim his place in the quarter-finals of the Swiss Open yesterday.  The Swiss top seed and world No1 beat Croatia's Ivo Karlovic 6-7, 6-3, 7-6 in a delayed second-round match, which had been postponed on Thursday afternoon because of cloudbursts at the Swiss Alpine resort where Federer, 22, is seeking to win his home event for the first time.  Federer, who also beat the 6ft 10in Croatian in the fourth round at Wimbledon, struggled to find his best form on the clay court of the Roy Emerson Arena but extended his winning streak to 22 from 23 matches.  "I have played six sets against him now and four of them have gone to a tie-break," he said. "That shows how difficult it is to play against his service. I had to work hard to win this game."  Asked to compare the service of Karlovic with that of the defeated Wimbledon finalist Andy Roddick, who holds the record for the fastest serve, Federer said: "They are both very fast but I think Karlovic's second serve is a little stronger." 