 Juan Carlos Ferrero must be surprised he is still world No1. First of all it depended upon the double fault which Wayne Ferreira served against him on match point and then upon Andy Roddick's startling implosion against the little-known Chilean Nicolas Massu.  Then Ferrero was obliged to set aside the indignity triggered by the belated arrival of David Beckham and Roberto Carlos, which caused the centre court crowd to display an approval rating significantly higher than that which the Spaniard had himself been enjoying and interrupting his match for several minutes.  Ferrero has also had to cope with a painful foot, a tired body and moderate form, plus the knowledge that the home crowd can articulate a wide range of groans and grumbles whenever he makes a mistake.  Yet the 22-year-old nicknamed "little kid" showed himself a big boy in attitude as well as in status yesterday, a calm and measured performance carrying him to a 6-4, 6-2 win over Paradorn Scrichaphan and into the semi-finals of the Masters Series.  That meant Roddick will have to wait at least another week, and probably two, before getting another chance to reach the summit.  Ferrero was placidly athletic and showed that his weight on the first serve, his touch on the volley and willingness to come forward have all developed. He still tended to make too many unforced errors but Srichaphan was making even more.  Earlier Younes El Aynaoui, whose year started with a history-making five-hour match with Roddick and looks like finishing with his first top- 20 finish, continued to explore new territory at an age when a majority players are thinking of at last having a home life.  The 32-year-old Moroccan reached his first Masters Series semi-final with a determined escape from within two points of defeat against Sébastien Grosjean. "I'm always surprised by myself when I go through matches like this," El Aynaoui said after his 3-6, 7-6, 6-2 win over the Wimbledon semi-finalist which earned him a meeting with Massu.  "Yesterday I didn't think I could beat him and today I did. I think and feel, and the players too, that I am getting more and more dangerous," he added, agreeing that he still did not realise how much potential he had.  "I don't know how those other players think," he said, with a curious mixture of wisdom and naivety. "I wish I could be somewhere inside their brains." Most of them have felt the same about El Aynaoui, the tour's most entertaining enigma. 