 Andy Murray went from a matter-of-factly taken win over the world's greatest player to a harassing scramble past a relative unknown today. He also went from controlling his euphoria to containing frustration and, more worryingly, from the imperious court coverage he displayed against Roger Federer to restricted movement and evident discomfort during a 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5) survival against Fernando Verdasco, the world No30. Murray was troubled by problems in his right knee, the one which led to last month's controversial withdrawal from the Davis Cup, and which flared up again after he jarred it stretching for a wide ball in the third game of the second set here. He claimed that this was not serious and that it might not necessarily affect him tomorrow against Nikolay Davydenko, but then offset this optimistic self-diagnosis by admitting he suffers from problems with it half the time. "I have been doing a lot of stuff for it," he said. "I don't know if the muscles are a little bit tired but I get it a lot just after a couple of games. I get it in 50% of my matches. It's just a bit uncomfortable for a few games. If it was really bad I would have had the trainer on." He was also asked if this match was the kind of "grind" which Federer had warned Murray risked by playing too passively behind the baseline and relying on running. "The problem today was that I was missing it too early in the rallies, shanking a lot of balls, missing returns and not feeling comfortable at all," he said. "The match didn't feel too much of a grind, but it was a difficult match. I didn't play well and I am glad to get through." He was, in fact, fortunate to have done so. Of course he had his excuses, and reasonable ones. He had had to adapt from a jam-packed, dead-still, night-time stadium on Monday to a sun-soaked, wind-ravaged, near-empty arena today, and from the luxury of being able to test how well he could play, to widespread expectation that he should win the match. Had the Spaniard been just a little less error-prone, Murray might not have done so. His consolations were that he continued scrapping even while he was disconsolate and annoyed, and that his draw now looks as good as it could be. Whether or not his physical condition is affecting his play is entirely another matter. Murray was told as long ago as 2003 that his knee-cap is in two parts, a condition which affects about one in a hundred people, and that as the parts are connected by tissue this can become aggravated and inflamed. Soon after something similar to this appeared to have occurred, Murray slipped to 0-3 in the second set. At this stage Verdasco, who likes to get his adrenalin rushing by giving the ball a good clout, began developing the confidence to risk it more often. That was dangerous. Although containment was still a sensible option for Murray in these circumstances, his ambitions began to get so limited that there were lengthy periods when he allowed the initiative to pass away from him entirely. But he often still served well. He pulled back a deficit of 15-40 in the third game of the final set, delivering a first service winner, an ace, and another fine first serve which forced a returning error. It was an important recovery. Without it the momentum might have shifted further and further to Verdasco. Instead of which, the final set laboured uninspiringly on, but with tension rising as a close finish loomed, and with Verdasco conspicuously more focused and Murray mysteriously rediscovering enough movement to make some decent retrieves. It had a climax worthy of a better match. Verdasco had come back from 2-6 to 5-6 in the tie-break when the two men played the longest rally of the match, 34 strokes in 51 seconds, the crowd squeaking and squealing as they did. "It was an ugly point actually," Murray said. "I was making sure I kept the ball in play because he is the kind of guy who, if you can get a lot of balls, you can get a present." Eventually he did, yet another over-hit ball from Verdasco which enabled Murray at last to give way to his feelings of anguish and relief. He will need to play much better tomorrow. But that may depend upon the knee. 