 Roger Federer moved into the semi-finals of the Australian Open with a four-sets win over the eighth-seed Argentinian David Nalbandian at Melbourne Park.  Federer always had the edge in a game full of stunningly powerful groundstrokes as he triumphed 7-5, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3. The Swiss No2 will now meet Juan Carlos Ferrero in the last four. The last time Federer reached the semi-final of a Grand Slam, at Wimbledon last year, he went on to win the tournament. Nalbandian had won five of the pairs' six previous meetings, but Federer overcame a nervous start to gain the upper hand as the players traded all the shots in the book.  "It is so much fun to stay for two weeks at the same place," said Federer, "and after what I experienced at Wimbledon I want to live through that more times in my career."  "This is a very good start to the season."  Earlier, Ferrero overcame the plucky Moroccan Hicham Arazi to reach his first Australian Open semi-final, although his straight-sets win was less comfortable than expected. The Spaniard, seeded third in Melbourne, raced through the opening set in just 24 minutes but found Arazi a stubborn opponent and required two nerve-jangling tie-breaks to seal a 6-1, 7-6 (8/6), 7-6 (7/5) win.  "I played really good when I started the match but I knew Arazi always plays good rallies," he said. "I missed some easy volleys but then I won the second set in the tie-break. It was pretty tough. I started to feel a little bit tired and finally I won a tough match." Ferrero held points for the second set at 5-4 when Arazi, who had previously threatened little against the French Open champion's serve, pulled a break back out of nowhere.  Ferrero made his first ventures to the net and they proved costly as Arazi, who beat Mark Philippoussis in straight sets in the fifth round, capitalised to even the set and force a tie-break.  Arazi was on the verge of levelling the match when he led 6-3 but could not close it out, with Ferrero unleashing two impressive serves and the Moroccan wasting his final opportunity with a loose forehand.  An incredible 37-stroke rally then ended with another Arazi error and Ferrero let fly with a superb backhand to claw himself out of the hole and take the set. The quality of the match was high, the rallying supreme, the baseline groundstrokes ferocious and the sportsmanship heart-warming as the third set went with serve but included some epic moments. Ferrero saved two break points at 2-2 and then sealed the game after a stunning rally that included two net-cords and the Spaniard exchanged friendly words with Arazi at the changeover. Ferrero, bidding to reclaim the world No1 ranking after Andy Roddick's defeat yesterday, conceded a break to Arazi and trailed 3-5 after successive backhand errors but the Moroccan could not close out the set and was broken straight back to 15.  Cue a second tie-break that once again spawned an incredible exchange as Arazi recovered a Ferrero lob before returning to the net only to be passed by the Spaniard.   The two exchanged smiles, both were exhausted and Ferrero went and sat in the shade as he regained his breath before stepping back into the sunlight to clinch the match as Arazi fired a backhand into the net.   "I feel tired because it was a long year last year. We start soon again this year here but I am in the semi-final so I am very happy," he said. 