 Youth has its fling in the opening singles matches of Britain's Davis Cup world group first-round match against Australia tomorrow, with the 18-year-old Alex Bogdanovic set to play the world No1 Lleyton Hewitt - only 21 himself - and Alan Mackin, 21, up against Mark Philippoussis.  Both Mackin, born in Paisley, and Bogdanovic, who moved from Belgrade to London when he was 10, will be making their debuts in a competition that Australia last won in 1999 and Britain in 1936. The division of success between the two countries has often been stark over the past 60 years, although the gap in class and experience can rarely have been wider than on this occasion.  Bogdanovic, the national champion, is ranked No459 in the world and Mackin has climbed to the dizzy heights of No331, which for the purposes of this tie makes him the No1. "This is as big as they get," said Mackin, which is more than can be said for the player himself, who at around 5ft 8in will be dwarfed by the 6ft 4in Philippoussis.  Arvind Parmar, Britain's No3 behind the injured Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski, has been named in the doubles along with Miles Maclagan, who came out of retirement last year to team up with Henman in the relegation tie against Thailand.  Maclagan had badly wanted to play in the singles this time, and there were rumours of a bust-up between him and Jeremy Bates, the British coach. Certainly yesterday's press conference, delayed for two hours in an attempt to prevent Australian journalists from getting the news, such as it was, into their papers first, was an edgy affair.  Roger Taylor, the captain, was particularly ill at ease initially, beginning by admitting he had changed his mind "a little bit" about the team's line-up during the week, and then denying this a few minutes later. Normally he has little to do when Henman and Rusedski are fit, and even when Rusedski was missing for the Thailand match last September it was obvious that Henman, understandably enough, was calling the shots, notably over the calling up of Maclagan.  This time Taylor has had to earn his crust, while knowing full well that, whatever combination he came up with, the chances of success were less than zero. The selection of Bogdanovic and Mackin was a correct one in the circumstances. Parmar, 24, has been found wanting under fire, notably against Ecuador in 2000 when he lost the fifth and final set after being two sets ahead, and to pick the 28-year-old Maclagan for the singles would have been a retrograde step.  Taylor has looked to the future and will hope that both the left-handed Bogdanovic and right-handed Mackin will thrive on this challenge and see it as an important step in their careers. "I tried to choose the team on merit, but the fact that they are both young is a real bonus," said Taylor.  Bogdanovic, coached by the London-based American Peter Fleming, the former doubles partner of John McEnroe, has the greater potential. However, the jump from junior tennis, which he was still playing last year, to the senior circuit is strewn with any number of sharp obstacles, most of which British players tend to run slap-bang into.  Mackin based himself in Monte Carlo as a teenager under the tutelage of Ronnie Leitgeb, the former coach of Austria's Thomas Muster, the 1995 French Open champion. The Scot, who is now coached by another Austrian, Peter Mletzko, is comfortable on clay, the surface the Australians chose for this tie, but has yet to make a significant breakthrough on the professional circuit.  "Because Tim and Greg are not here this is a great opportunity," said Mackin, who would not have made the team had Martin Lee not also been injured. "We are definitely a bit nervous," said Bogdanovic, "but I've worked really hard and feel pretty much ready."  With Australia the cast-iron certainties, Taylor's tots really have nothing to lose.   (British players name first)   Singles:  A Bogdanovic (world ranking no459) v L Hewitt (1); Alan Mackin (332) v Mark Philippoussis (95)   Doubles:  Arvind Parmar (163) & Miles Maclagan (443) v Wayne Arthurs (46) & Todd Woodbridge (-) 