 The Scots broke a few records in Nelson but not the one that they desperately wanted to break. Thanks to Kyle Coetzer’s 156 from 134 balls they posted their highest score in World Cup cricket by the massive margin of 108 runs. But they could not post that first victory. On a bountiful pitch Bangladesh reached their target of 319 with six wickets and 11 balls to spare. This was a source of great disappointment not only to the Scots, but also to the English. It would have been handy for England’s beleaguered crew, who await Bangladesh in Adelaide, if the Scots had been able to defend their best ever total. England already knew that they have to beat Bangladesh to stay in the tournament. But now even if England win on Monday they could still be scuppered by bad weather or a Bangladesh victory over New Zealand – or a defeat by Afghanistan in their last pool match. At the halfway stage the Scots must have sensed a chance. Even in this inflation–ridden era 319 takes some getting albeit in Nelson, where decent targets have already been chased down by Ireland and Zimbabwe in this World Cup. This time Tamim Iqbal, a more restrained batsman that when he first surfaced, delivered a timely 95 and the old timers down the order kept their head. We knew the Scots lacked firepower in the field but their bowlers also lacked a wee bit of discipline. And the direct hit from sprightly cover fieldsmen remained elusive. Coetzer did not deserve to be on the losing side. His innings was superbly paced; it was by a margin of 80 runs the highest by a Scot in a World Cup match, surpassing Gavin Hamilton’s 76 in 1999; it was also the highest by an associate player in a World Cup match. Even though Coetzer was on the losing side, he was the man of the match. Without him there would barely have been a contest. At the start Coetzer was often deprived of the strike so that his run-a-ball progress was almost surreptitious. The pitch was so true that the minimalism of his foot movement was no impediment. He pulled the short ball with time to spare and later in his innings his straight driving was simple and powerful. He shunned most of the modern eccentricities; reverse sweeps and scoops were conspicuously absent. In fact in this World Cup these strokes have not been as prevalent as expected. Power hitting has prevailed. Coetzer dutifully set himself to play the long innings that Scotland desperately needed to surpass their paltry previous best total in World Cups – the 210 they scored against Afghanistan in Dunedin last week. There was support from Matt Machan who threatened more than his 35. He looks so polished at the crease that his dismissal is often a cause of exasperation. It certainly was on Thursday when he presented a gentle return catch to Sabbir Rahman after bobbling along without much trouble. Preston Mommsen (39) was sharp enough to give Coetzer more of the strike in a 131-run partnership and there were flurries from Richie Berrington and Matt Cross even though there was a nasty moment of friendly fire in their alliance. In the penultimate over Cross smashed a straight drive back down the pitch and Berrington was unable to avoid it. The ball thudded into his left wrist and was a source of considerable pain. Bangladesh grew more ragged in the field and they had their casualties as well. Captain Mashrafe Mortaza was hobbling at the end and Anamul Haque after a valiant dive in the outfield had to return to the pavilion with a dislocated shoulder. Their pacemen were pummelled near the end so Mortaza kept his spinners going. As usual Shakib al Hasan was Bangladesh’s most frugal bowler. In the field the Scots could not capitalise on their moments of good fortune. Soumya Sarkar was soon caught behind off Josh Davey, wafting down the leg side, but Mahmudullah and Tamim proceeded to add 139 together without alarm.  Then there was another stroke of good luck as Mahmudullah managed to kick a delivery that was 18 inches wide onto his stumps. In both instances Scotland were unable to impose any pressure upon the new batsmen.  Tamim was lbw to Davey but Mushifqur Rahim, a bundle of mischief at the crease, and the evergreen Shakib easily kept the team on course, while there was a cameo from Sabbir in the final overs. England may take comfort from Bangladesh’s bowling frailties, but they might also take note that the experienced men in their batting line-up are coming into form just at the right time.  For the Scots, who are now officially unable to make the quarter-finals, life gets no easier. They head off to Hobart for two more games – against Sri Lanka and then an Australian side, which is not inclined to show much mercy to the associate sides. 