 Life is seldom perfect for any player, even in the picturesque setting of the Pacific Life Open, a Californian idyll usually as drenched in sun as it is in wealthy retirees' money. Instead, Andy Murray woke up yesterday to threatening clouds and icy winds and his performance against Jürgen Melzer was as patchy as the weather. Murray, seeded 11th at the first Masters Series of the season, eventually beat the 85th-ranked Austrian 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 but he had been 4-0 down in 11 minutes and repeatedly berated himself for being too passive, misjudging the wind on the exposed outside court and generally not living up to his exacting standards. As much as he still tends to huff on court when he feels he is not doing everything right, that is not necessarily a bad sign, for the 20-year-old has learned to grind out wins. His former coach Brad Gilbert may be persona non grata these days but yesterday's victory was a fine embodiment of Gilbert's catchphrase "winning ugly". Melzer is experienced enough to spot signs of vulnerability in a marquee name and he fired winners past Murray for the first 15 minutes or so, dominating at the net and bullying him into the passivity which can sometimes be his downfall. Even when Melzer eased off and Murray's game began to function better, it was too late to salvage the first set and, though the Scot was always ahead in the second, he twice needed to break the Melzer serve. The Murray support group, bolstered by the arrival of his grandparents, looked more settled in their seats by the time he had levelled the match and gone a break ahead in the third. They would have been relieved to see him become more aggressive in the decider, peppering clever counterpunching with vicious winners from the net and baseline. "Once I started to get into the match a bit more and make a few first serves and get a bit more kick on my second serve, he started to miss," said Murray. "Even though his tactics were good early on, I managed to turn it around and was doing to him what he was doing to me." The win over Melzer earned Murray a meeting with the Croatian Ivo Karlovic, whom he beat in the indoor final at San Jose two years ago in their only previous meeting. Having made the semi-finals here last year and at the sister event in Miami, Murray is eager to defend those ranking points and maintain his place in the top 10, and with it secure a higher seeding for the French Open and Wimbledon. Such pressures are inherent in what he does for a living and will be there whether he plays well or not. As yesterday showed, Murray has learned to make do. 