 The success of a British tennis player is "totally related" to their family's wealth, according to the mother of the national junior No2, Heather Watson. Last month the 17-year-old Watson was ranked 12th on the world junior circuit after a quarter-final appearance at the junior Australian Open. She had spent five years at the Bollettieri academy in Florida, whose graduates include Andre Agassi and Maria Sharapova. But despite the Bollettieri pedigree, bursaries from the Lawn Tennis Association's £25m-a-year surplus were not made available. Instead the family was forced to foot the expense of sending her to Florida. "It is not a coincidence: it's totally related to how much money you have," Watson's mother, Michelle, told Digger. "If you are any good the only measure of success is playing in tournaments. But she couldn't compete abroad until a year ago with the LTA's financial backing." Watson's rise to the world junior top 20 stuttered yesterday with a first-round defeat to Valeria Solovieva at Wimbledon, but her mother is convinced she owes her ranking to Bolletieri's specialist coaching. Full‑time boarding fees cost £30,000 a year but the LTA's player director, Steven Martens, says his organisation does not have the resources to pay players' academy fees. "No federation in the world could afford it," said Martens, although the LTA's annual incomes rival those of a Premier League football club. Since Watson left for Florida the LTA has introduced a national talent-ID network and National Tennis Centre at Roehampton providing full-time coaching and schooling. Richard Gasquet, last year's Wimbledon quarter-finalist, was back in the capital yesterday but not for the tennis. The former world No7 was taken to a secret London location for a hearing of the International Tennis Federation after testing positive for cocaine last month. The six-person panel will have a fortnight to deliberate on the evidence before coming to a verdict that could lead to Gasquet receiving a two-year ban if he is found guilty of knowingly taking the banned substance. Gasquet, who has denied any wrongdoing since the positive test at a tournament in Miami, intended to raise in his defence a hair test he undertook on 7 May which he attests did not discover any trace of cocaine. Sir Clive Woodward was in the royal box here yesterday but took time out to deliver his verdict on the British and Irish Lions' eye-gouging affair. Schalk Burger's first‑minute attack on Luke Fitzgerald set the tone for the Lions' narrow defeat on Saturday and Woodward, who coached the Lions on their last tour, to New Zealand in 2005, accused the French referee Christophe Berdos of "ducking out", adding: "It's a very, very strange decision. To me it's a red card or nothing." All England Club officials handed out sanitising handwipes in the locker rooms after a suspected outbreak of swine flu. Four ballboys and girls were asked to remain at home after reporting symptoms of the disease, which has already infected 5,937 people in the UK, according to official figures yesterday. Players here are unlikely to be the first to suffer, though. One element of the disease-prevention advice from the All England Club chief executive, Ian Ritchie was: "Keep physically active." As the countdown on the Pinnacle Group's bid to buy Southampton entered the 11th hour yesterday, Matt Le Tissier had a date with Channel Four. But far from using the broadcaster as a platform to provide the south-coast club's fans with an update on takeover talks, Le Tissier was instead sitting in Dictionary Corner on Countdown – once the preserve of that All England Club royal-box regular Richard Stilgoe. Le Tiss was an invitee of the host, his Sky Soccer Saturday colleague, Jeff Stelling. But Saints fans looking for portents for their indebted club appear to have much to fear from the conundrum: the anagram of Le Tissier was "sterilise". 