 "I sound like a woman," smiled Andy Murray. It was a couple of hours after yet another dramatic five-set grand slam victory, this time over Austria's Jürgen Melzer in the third round of the US Open. In a small room beneath the Arthur Ashe stadium, the Scot relaxed and talked about a small spending spree that had yielded jackets, T-shirts and trousers in a "nice little clothes shop" in Manhattan. This was the gentle, often self-deprecatory young man that is rarely publicly on view. The Americans are trying very hard to like Mr Murray. After all, he frequently speaks openly and enthusiastically about his deep-rooted passion for this tournament, where he was junior champion in 2004, but they would love him to show his teeth a little more when on court and not in the form of a snarl. It may, ultimately, happen. For the time being Murray remains miserly when it comes to open displays of undiluted happiness. It is his nature to a large degree, at least in public; such are the ambitions and high goals he has set himself that he sees no great cause to become overly effusive just yet.  Should he reach his first grand slam semi-final here, currently two victories away, then he may allow himself a little leeway, a few more glimpses of his delight. Murray is aiming for the very top and believes it could occur under the floodlights next Sunday, although having reached the last 16 with this 6-7, 4-6, 7-6, 6-1, 6-3 victory over the Austrian, he needs to play radically better from now on. Today he meets "the other Swiss", Stanislas Wawrinka, for a place in his second successive grand slam quarter-final, and this time Rafael Nadal will not immediately be waiting for him, as was the case at Wimbledon. That encounter is on hold until Saturday's semi-finals. "Your career is defined by the big matches," Murray said after he came from two sets down to beat the left-handed Melzer, just as he had done at Wimbledon against Richard Gasquet of France.  To date these "big matches" have, at grand slam level, largely been ones of redemption, of Murray coming back from the brink. The 21-year-old has not played well here on the cement courts he feels best suit his game, though when he opened up with his big guns on Saturday the Austrian could not live with him. But, like his smile, Murray tends to ration those, too. To be sure, all doubts about his levels of fitness have been banished. It was Melzer who faded in their four-hour marathon, leaving Murray to hitch up his sleeve and point to his bicep, just as he had after the Gasquet win at Wimbledon. Scratch the surface and Murray remains prickly about the criticism levelled at him in the early part of his career. "It was unfair," he said. "It all came upon me very quickly in the slams and I was still growing."  He emphasised the damage that might have been done if he had pushed himself too hard as a teenager. Now he takes understandable pride in his level of fitness, the constant gym work and - "hardest of all" - the repetitive track work when he runs a series of gruelling 100m and 400m shuttles within a set time. Wawrinka does not have Murray's natural gifts but has worked with similar assiduity in pursuit of success. Inevitably he has lived in Roger Federer's shadow, without making complaints or excuses. The 23-year-old cracked the top 10 in May for after finishing runner-up to Novak Djokovic in the Rome Masters, where he beat Murray, while last month he won the doubles gold with Federer in Beijing.  "He's had his best year by far," admitted Murray, who nevertheless has beaten the Swiss - a good friend on the circuit - three times on hardcourts since January, that Rome defeat being on clay. Wawrinka also had a tough third-round match, like Murray coming back from two sets down to defeat Italy's Flavio Cipolla, a "lucky loser" entry from the qualifying.  But the Swiss, whose No10 ranking puts him four places lower than Murray, has yet to reach a slam quarter-final and the Scot should have the edge, assuming he can release himself more quickly from the tangle of passivity that threatened defeat against Melzer. "I think I'm hitting the ball well. I just feel like my return game needs to get better and to try and create a few more opportunities on the return," he said. "I feel like I'm moving well and my goal for the tournament remains to try and win it." 