 Preamble Hello. Really it should have been Scott Murray doing the Scot Murray's match, but he's not here and I am, so let's get on with it. Some facts to tide you over Murray v Davydenko career record: 0-1 (a 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 defeat in Indian Wells earlier this year). Latest match betting: Murray 5-6, Davydenko 11-10. Murray's record under Brad Gilbert in North America: 14-3. Murray's route should he progress: Marat Safin (probably) in the quarter-finals, Fed Express in the semis, then (probably) A-Rod - in front of partisan home support - or Rafa Nadal in the final. Easy. Why this should be the latest 'tempestuous' encounter for the British No1 Davydenko claims that people shouldn't read too much into the Scot's recent victory against Roger Federer. Why? "We know already that Federer should have retired before Cincinnati because when he won the event in Toronto [the previous week], I heard from his girlfriend that he was not going to play Cincinnati," said the world No6. "I am surprised that he went there and not surprised that he lost, because when Federer wants to play, he doesn't lose to anybody." Fight! Fight! Fight! First set: Murray 1* - 0 Davydenko No sign of nerves from Murray, who comes out with an impressive hold to give his followers on Louis Armstrong Court plenty to flex their vocal muscles at. First set: Murray 1 - 1* Davydenko Solid serving from the Russian gives him an easy game to 15, as Murray struggles to loosen up his forehand. First set: Murray 1* - 2 Davydenko The first major test of the match for Murray, who quickly falls 15-40 down to give Davydenko two break points. The pressure pays off on the first as Davydenko swiftly takes the upper hand by going a break up. First set: Murray 1 - 3* Davydenko It's all rather comfortable for the seventh seed right now, taking advantage of some errant Murray strokes from the back of the court. First set: Murray 1* - 4 Davydenko A crucial game for Murray to win, but he's quickly put under pressure as Davydenko races clear to two more break points. This isn't looking clever at all. A 132mph serve helps Murray stave off the first, but it's merely a temporary respite as the Russian wins the second. First set: Murray 1 - 5* Davydenko Currently, Davydenko is on top in every department, displaying the guile, accuracy and confidence of a player enjoying some of the form of his life. Murray tests him in this game, though, pressuring him to 30-30 and then to deuce, before earning his first break point of the match. Davydenko responds and then, much to Murray's anger and clear frustration, closes out the game. First set: Murray 1* - 6 Davydenko When things aren't going Murray's way, he does have a tendency to get down on himself in a hurry. That appears the case as this set looks to be slipping from his grasp: Davydenko powers away to give himself three set points. To his credit, Murray saves the first two, but Davydenko isn't to be denied on the third, rounding out the first set in double-quick time. Davydenko leads 6-1, 1* - 0 From being the clear pre-game favourite, Murray's odds have swiftly lengthened to 2-1. Davydenko is 4-11, by the way. That first set lasted barely 29 minutes, and Davydenko continues where he left off, collecting his seventh game on the trot. Murray took him to deuce again, but the Russian is coolness personified when it comes to the big points right now. "Re: 'Murray's anger and clear frustration'. Keep that phrase ready to paste into every set for the permanently energy-sapped Scot," says Gary Naylor. "Or maybe, like Agassi did, he'll learn to concentrate on winning." Davydenko leads 6-1, 1 - 1* Murray's only managing to get 48% of his first serves in and that simply isn't good enough in the last 16 of a slam. Davydenko is nearer 62% and is living up to his billing as one of the game's great returners, winning 54% of points against the serve when he gets the ball back in play. It's not good enough to help him in this game, mind, as Murray stops the bleeding with a solid game to 15. Davydenko leads 6-1, 1* - 2 It seems that Murray has found himself a decent band of followers Stateside, who are doing their utmost to rally him in this second set. They have something to shout about at last as their man rocks ahead to 40-15 against the serve, before breaking Davydenko and moving 2-1 up. Cue much whooping and hollering around Louis Armstrong Court. Davydenko leads 6-1, 1 - 3* There's the Murray fist-pump. As he's shown in previous rounds, once he can find some momentum, Murray can quickly run with it. All of a sudden, he's finding winners, while pressuring Davydenko into a series of unforced errors. A hold to 15 makes it three games on the spin for Murray, now. Davydenko leads 6-1, 2* - 3 For those of you interested in the women's draw, Jelena Jankovic is currently a set and break up at 3-1 on Elena Dementieva in their clash on Arthur Ashe Court. But while that one-sided encounter seems destined for a swift resolution, we've finally got a match with Murray and Davydenko. The Scot's run of games comes to an end, but only after forcing his opponent to 30-30. After a brief break to focus his concentration, Davydenko serves out the game. Davydenko leads 6-1, 2 - 4* "You've been covering Murray for almost an hour now, and you've only printed one email - and anyway, that was about tennis, so it doesn't count," bemoans Tom Chivers. "Is something wrong? Or is everyone over with Smyth watching England's latest dull collapse?" A far more refined crowd over here, I think you'll find Tom, although things are starting to get interesting. Murray desperately needs to claim this set - I can't see him coming from two-down to win a five-setter - and he's soon under the cosh and staring break point in the face. Bravely, he holds it off (Davydenko's break-point conversion stats are now 3-7, or 43%) and wins the next point too, before Davydenko brings us back to deuce. As the pressure intensifies, Murray digs deep and eventually produces the winner that takes him to 4-2. That was a big game. Davydenko leads 6-1, 3* - 4 While Jankovic wins her women's quarter-final 6-2, 6-1, these two are currently fighting it out just for the pleasure of being in the last eight. Davydenko holds serve pretty comfortably to put the pressure back on his opponent. Davydenko leads 6-1, 3 - 5* "I've got both theguardian's coverages open as I beaver away at not very much, and wanted to know whether I was the only reader with a name resonating across both sports?" asks David Lloyd. Um, yes. A vital hold from Murray, who responds to falling 0-30 behind by storming back to take the game. Davydenko leads 6-1, 4* - 5 Dominating the game from the back of the court, Davydenko holds to love and forces Murray to serve out the set. Davydenko leads 6-1, 5 - 5* Serving with new balls, the black-and-white-alternate-socked Murray immediately finds himself on the back foot. First he nets an overhead smash horribly into the base of the net before sending a wild forehand wide of the tram-lines. He gets a lef-off when Davydenko fires a soft return deep of the base-line, but finds himself 15-40 down when the Russian rounds off a fine point by volleying into the open court. One beautiful backhand cross-court secures the break for Davydenko, who's got his tail up once more. Davydenko leads 6-1, 5* - 6 That last game really was a slack one from Murray, who sets about making amends by racing to 0-30; it's Davydenko's turn to feel the pressure as he puts an overhead of his own into the net and then nets a soft drop volley. At 0-40 down, the Russian gets tight and then sends a backhand wide to put Murray a break up for the second time in the set. We're one-set-all people! Superb serving from Murray gives him a quick 30-0 lead, prompting Davydenko to subsequently send a disheartened forehand into the net. And with three set points at his disposal, Murray needs just the one, as a half-volley from the Russian flies long. "C'mon!" is the unsurprising roar from Murray, who races into the change of ends with renewed vigour. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 1 - 0* Davydenko Murray is beginning to run down every ball, forcing Davydenko to play that extra shot to win his points. At 30-30, Murray has a real chance, but spectacular chasing down of his own keeps the Russian in a point he had no right to be in. However, subsequent slack shots from the back of the court give Murray two break points and a netted forehand from Davydenko gives the Scot the lead for the first time in the match. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2* - 0 Davydenko Despite his 48% first-serve percentage, Murray has taken charge of the match. He races through the second game to love following a particularly dispirited game from Davydenko. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2 - 1* Davydenko It was mentioned earlier how Murray can tend to drop his head when things go against him, but as Steve Bierley wrote this morning, so too can Davydenko. The accuracy he displayed in strolling to the opening set has long left his game, and another shocking forehand which catches the net halfway up gives Murray another break point. Wastefully, he sends a two-handed forehand long. After both players match error with error, Murray sees another break point slip away, courtesy of a booming Davydenko forehand. The chance is gone, and Davydenko gets off the mark for the set. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2* - 2 Davydenko Excellent shots from both players light up the game of the match: first, an exquisite wraparound forehand from Murray and then a cracking drop shot from Davydenko, followed by a teed-off forehand to make it 30-30. Then, a weak forehand into the net from Murray gives his opponent a break point ... which he takes with his favourite shot, a low cross-court backhand that doesn't give the Scot a chance. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2 - 3* Davydenko I may well be mistaken, but the first signs of fatigue seem to be drifting into Murray's game. His forehands aren't flushed with power and his serving in the last game looked a little weak. Nevertheless, he finds himself with a break point courtesy of some equally disappointing play from Davydenko. Agonisingly, he sends a backhand winner just long and tests out the bounce of the court with his racquet. Davydenko takes advantage of the let-off and serves out, while Murray is left to curse himself. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2* - 4 Davydenko More anguished yells from Murray as he serves up another break point for Davydenko, who gleefully takes advantage to take the upper hand in the match once again. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 2 - 5* Davydenko A comfortable hold to 15 makes it five games in a row for Davydenko as Murray again finds himself mired in a slump. Too often during matches he loses a number of games on the trot, and this latest collapse has put his opponent in touching distance of a two-sets-to-one lead. One-set-all (1-6, 7-5); third set: Murray 3* - 5 Davydenko The rot comes to an end, but probably too late, with Davydenko getting himself focused and pumped up for the next game - the one that really matters. Davydenko leads 6-1, 5-7, 6-3 Having stormed to 40-0 and three set points, Davydenko takes the second and leaves Murray facing a similar mountain to the one he climbed in the third round, when he fought back from two-sets-to-one down and defeated Fernando González in five. Umbrellas are popping up We're two hours and eight minutes into this match and any break would probably suit Murray right now. A temporary break is called for, but there's none of your fancy Wimbledon covers, just the poor ball-boys and girls wandering around the court, towelling down any damp areas. Cutting-edge stuff. And play has been suspended ... For now. So, what can Murray do to win this one? Anyone? The good people at Sky think his positioning behind the back of the court is to blame, with Davydenko able to pick him off with angled winners, short and across the court. For me, Murray needs to lift his intensity levels: too often he concedes cheap points with apparent on-court sulks. And when he has that intensity, he needs to channel it correctly: instead of arguing the toss and getting mad at himself, Murray simply has to forget the bad points and be on his game for every single point. And, as he did during the second set, he has to get into Davydenko's head. When he beat González, he managed to do this and the Chilean never recovered, even from his position of ascendancy. Whether or not Murray can do this again will - in my opinion - be a mark of just how far he has come under Brad Gilbert's tutelage. Your random musings "Is it just me, or does Davydenko look like a sporty Niles Crane?" ponders Phil Walters. Eerie, Phil, eerie. "Not uncommon in a teenager, Andy just needs to balance out his personality," writes the returning Gary Naylor. "On court, he gives it the full Monty - that's Monty his fellow countryman, serial Major loser, with the sulk, the snarl and the shrug. Off court, he is witty, urbane and nobody's fool, more Jackie Stewart than Monty. And that Scot won everything and lived to tell the tale." Beaten by the weather Much as I'd like to stay here all night, home is calling me so, if you don't object, I shall be leaving you in the far more trustworthy hands of Mike Adamson. I am out of h............... Evening everyone Mike here. At the moment James Blake is level at three-games-all with Carlos Moya. Now either these guys really like playing each other, or this is a repeat of their match last night. The latter is more likely, which indicates it's still raining in the city that never sleeps - as soon as there's a sign Murray and Crane might return to the court, I'll return to my keyboard. Until then then... Match abandoned There will be no further play in Murray's match tonight, so you people will have to wait until tomorrow to find out whether he can fight back from two sets to one down. 