 Seven of Britain's 10 wheelchair tennis Paralympians were in action at the Nottingham Indoor tournament, including the defending champion, world No9 and British No1, Gordon Reid. The Scot will face the world No2, Maikel Scheffers, in a repeat of last year's final, a three-hour epic in which each set went to a tie-break. The highest-ranked competitor in the women's field is the German world No3, Sabine Ellerbrock. Reid on Saturday defeated the world No23 David Phillipson of Nottinghamshire. Entry to Sunday's finals, at the City of Nottingham Tennis Centre, is free. Keri-Anne Payne will return to the swimming pool to try to qualify for the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. Payne came fourth by 0.4sec in the Olympic 10km open-water swimming event but the event is not on the Glasgow programme. "I'll try for the pool and see how it goes," she said. "I'm quite keen on [individual] medley again after having a two-year break from that." Payne won Commonwealth bronze in 2010. She also said she is relocating from Stockport to Edinburgh with her husband, David Carry, who retired after the 400m freestyle final in London. Last year's winner of the Pau four-star event in France, William Fox-Pitt, proved an assured pathfinder on Chilli Morning, on which he has risen seven places to sixth. He also had a great round on the nine-year-old Bay My Hero, now in fifth. "I've had quite an interrupted season with Chilli, but he is accepting me more now. He gave me a lovely ride," Fox-Pitt said. "And with Bay My Hero it's a bit like riding my old pony. He knows where to go and is clever and cat-like, despite the fact that the ground was more slippery by the time I went on him." Manchester has been granted another gold postbox, to honour the city's role in nurturing Britain's successful cycling team. The postbox, in Piccadilly Gardens, was unveiled on Friday as part of an Olympic celebration featuring, among others, the cyclists Laura Trott and Sarah Storey, the Manchester-based taekwondo gold medallist Jade Jones and a lot of fireworks. Storey and Jones will reunite on Thursday to help McFly turn on the Trafford Centre Christmas lights. Scottish councils spent at least £800,000 on the torch relay, with North Lanarkshire splashing £7,000 on "branded street-dressing materials", Stirling £791 on "Olympic hand flags" and Aberdeen £244 on "balloon modellers" … Paralympic gold medallist Jonnie Peacock has opened a new Bedfordshire municipal facility, Luton Sports Village … Rowing gold medallist Kat Copeland confirmed her intention to compete in Rio and opened a £130,000 all-weather sports ground at Hartburn Primary School in Stockton … Boxing gold medallist Luke Campbell has opened a new home for Tamworth Amateur Boxing Club. "It's brilliant here," he said … Eastbourne's diving centre has seen a 65% increase in participation since the Olympics.  