 Roscoe Tanner appears in court today facing a 20-year prison sentence. This time his serve will not get him out of trouble.  Tanner, 51, arrived at the Pinellas County Jail in Florida at the weekend accompanied by two US marshals after being extradited from Germany on charges of grand theft and writing a fraudulent cheque. He is also wanted by authorities in Somerset County, New Jersey, because he allegedly owes £50,000 in child support to a local woman.  The left-hander from Tennessee won more than £1m during his career but he is now penniless and has been unable to post any bail while he is being represented by the Public Defender's Office because he cannot afford a lawyer. Tanner had claimed he "hadn't skipped off with anyone's money and I'm sorting everything out" but failed to contact the Florida authorities.  Since his retirement in 1985 because of an elbow injury Tanner attempted to launch a number of ventures revolving around fitness and tennis centres that all spectacularly failed, many before they were even opened.  One involved a tennis centre in Lookout Mountain, where Tanner famously once lived; another concerned a Tanner Tennis Village in Atlanta. In 2000 he was involved in establishing the Roscoe Tanner Tennis Academy at an exclusive hotel in St Lucia in the Caribbean. Another tennis centre, which would have cost around £2m, also failed before it got off the ground. There were rumours of financial irregularities and those working alongside Tanner claimed that they had been left out of pocket from his failed business ventures. The former world No4 spent the best part of the 90s chasing one business dream after another while coaching and playing on senior tours at the same time.  A former business partner was reported as saying recently: "He left us owing us money. You can tell him to send us the rest of the money."  A spokesman for the exclusive Treasure Island Tennis & Yacht Club near St Petersburg, Florida, where Tanner worked as a coach before leaving for Germany, said: "I have always maintained that he was a wasted talent. He was always borrowing money from people. He just lived in a twilight zone.  "Even though he was very nice you always had a feeling with Tanner that he was up to something. We really did not know that much about his personal life but there was always a feeling that you didn't quite know what he was doing."  The main charge that resulted in Tanner being extradited to the US relates to his purchase of a boat and illustrates the intricate and convoluted nature of his business life.  According to court documents, it is alleged that, while working at the Treasure Island club, Tanner bought the boat from a local company, Gene Gammon & Associates, for around £23,000 using a cheque when there were no funds in his account. He then used the boat as collateral in obtaining a $10,000 (£6,400) loan, which he later paid off with a cheque that subsequently bounced.  When the boat company demanded payment, he produced a receipt under the State Attorney's Office letterhead saying that he paid the money into their bank account. It later emerged that the communication declaring payment had been made was forged.  Tanner eventually returned the boat to Gene Gammon & Associates but it was later repossessed by the company with whom Tanner had taken out the loan.  The US authorities claim that Tanner fled to Germany in early 2002 to avoid investigation into the purchase of the boat and paying child maintenance to Connie Romano, who had his daughter after a brief affair in 1993.  Tanner denied being the baby's father although blood tests carried out showed that it was a 99% certainty that he is and a court ordered him to pay $500,000 in maintenance.  The paternity dispute led to Tanner being dramatically arrested midway through a seniors tournament he was playing in Florida in 1997, resulting in him having to spend a night in jail. After paying off the bulk of the money he filed for bankruptcy in 1998. It is now alleged that Tanner still owes Romano £50,000.  The emergence of a love child led to the break-up of Tanner's marriage of 15 years to Charlotte.  Until his extradition Tanner had been living with his second wife and two daughters in Karlsruhe where he worked at a tennis academy owned by his former professional rival and close friend Jürgen Fassbender.  Tanner's family have stayed in Germany while he prepares to face judges in Florida to protest his innocence. 