 Andy Murray would drop his eyes when he met the world's leading players in the locker rooms here last year. No more. He walks the corridors with an ease born of confidence and his place in the world's top 20. His talent is recognised by all, from Roger Federer down, and today, at 19, he will play Russia's Nikolay Davydenko, the world No6, for a place in his first grand slam quarter-final. Murray's tennis career is on fast-forward, it appears, and only his credit card is feeling the pain. Last Friday, the teenager who loves his junk food - but as in many things is beginning to refine his habits - was in the same Manhattan restaurant as Andre Agassi, Andy Roddick and Maria Sharapova with his American coach, Brad Gilbert. "My credit card is struggling right now," he said. "I said to Brad that I've spent more money in the last three weeks in restaurants than I have in the last three years. But he enjoys his food. It keeps him happy." Murray is concerned for Gilbert right now after the Californian was served a writ last week for payments allegedly owed to his management company. He thumped his chest in Gilbert's direction after defeating Chile's Fernando González 6-3, 3-6, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2 in the third round on Grandstand court, which is almost a home from home, with the Scot having played four of his five US Open matches there in the past two tournaments. "Brad is going through a difficult time, and I want to do my best to make him proud," said Murray, who has a 14-3 record on the North American hard courts since Gilbert became his coach in July. Despite his outward confidence, and his constant accent on the positive, Gilbert is remarkably thin-skinned, as anyone who has questioned his dress sense has discovered, and the current financial wrangling will have hit him harder than many people realise. Murray's victory over González, the 10th seed, was a triumph of patience, strategy and sound technique against a player who when he hits a hot streak is among the most dangerous in the world. In the second and third sets the 26-year-old, who is guided by Tim Henman's former coach, Larry Stefanki, served like a demon. "I was hardly winning any points on his serve, and returning is my strength," said Murray. "But then he missed a few balls in the fourth set that he shouldn't, and I broke him to win seven games in a row." His next opponent, the 25-year-old Davydenko, has reached both the quarter-finals of the Australian and French Open this year, and was a semi-finalist at Roland Garros last year, his best result in a grand slam. "He's one of the most consistent players on the tour, and the best returner in the game," said Murray, who was beaten by the Russian 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 in their only meeting, at Indian Wells earlier this year, on a fiercely windy day in the desert when Murray struggled to control the ball. "I feel like I'm playing better now. We both return pretty well and while he's more solid off the ground than me, I probably serve better. Maybe he moves a little better than me, so I will have to try and work out how to get to his weaknesses, and play to my strengths." Variety will be the key, and in this respect the advantage is with Murray. Davydenko's temperament can be suspect. He tends to get down on himself, something Murray will play on with his ability to keep the ball in play, and to vary the pace and spin of his shots seemingly at will, to give his opponent little opportunity to establish a rhythm. It is clear, though, if he is to shorten his matches, he must improve his serve, and generally become stronger. Of his five matches at Flushing Meadows, this year and last, three have gone to five sets. "I know I need to get better physically, but it's not a huge problem," he insisted. Whatever the need for further improvment, Murray's progression has been rapid and he will spearhead Britain's Davis Cup relegation tie against the Ukraine later this month, the team comprising Greg Rusedski, Alan Mackin, and Jamie Baker. The Scot was in the locker room when Agassi returned after losing to Benjamin Becker on Sunday in the final match of his career and received a standing ovation from the players. "He is someone who inspired me, and I'd love that to happen to me one day, although I'm not going to say I'll ever come close to what Andre did." 