 Rafael Nadal managed to fit in a practice session before the summer showers at the Stella Artois Championships yesterday, but there was much frowning and shaking of that jet-black mane as he went through his drills. The Spaniard has compiled a 60-match winning streak on clay including Sunday's win over Roger Federer in the Roland Garros final, but grass continues to be something of a challenge. The transition from one surface to the other is not easy for most players, let alone a young man who has just completed the physical and emotional marathon of defending the French Open title. "I am not with the best freshness but it's OK, no?" said Nadal, who will play a potentially difficult second-round match today against the big-serving American Mardy Fish. "I was practising yesterday. I want to practise, I want to practise a little bit because I want to feel the grass. But I feel a little bit dizzy on court. The legs very tired. So, no, is not easy." Nadal arrived on Monday but only after a somewhat farcical last-minute dash across Paris to catch the Eurostar, which he recounted at some length in a way which stretched his growing command of English up to its limits and sometimes beyond. "I had in the morning some interviews, some pictures in the centre of Paris, at the Place de la Concorde," he said. "So after I go very fast to the train, for take the train of one o'clock. We arrive 10 to one to the train, we can't take the train. We lost." Since he is only 20 he has time to solve the puzzle of both international train travel and how to cope with a surface where the ball skids at knee rather than eye level and he is certainly attacking it with a cheery enthusiasm. A decade ago his countrymen used to view the grass-court season as a four-week break but Nadal has made it clear that victory at Wimbledon would mean just as much to him as his two French Open titles, if not more. Nadal's wish to become a little more "establishment" than his grass-hating compatriots is somewhat at odds with the bandanna and pirate pants but that is part of Nadal's charm - he is every inch the modern player, yet with a conservative streak and a healthy respect for the history of the sport. This year he has chosen to play at Queen's rather than in Halle and admitted yesterday that this was partly to show that he wishes to follow the likes of Pete Sampras and Boris Becker, who used the event to get their grass-court game into gear. "I prefer play on this, in London this year. Is the same place like Wimbledon, the court is more similar," he said. "Last year I don't play very well in Halle, you know. Is very difficult play here, too. But I want to change and this is more traditional, no?" He plays nothing like either Sampras or Becker, but the game has moved on and you no longer need to be a 6ft-plus serve and volleyer to have a chance of winning a grass-court title. Nadal could hit his forehand on a meadow full of buttercups and it would still be every bit as potent. His ability to stay in rallies long after everyone else has packed up and gone home is almost as useful on a dry, high bouncing modern grass court as it is on clay. Taking quick little steps and sudden lunges instead of the sliding and gliding into the ball is a more difficult adjustment, though, and may take more than a couple of English summers. Slide on a grass court and it will ruffle like a cheap carpet - and what's more you are unlikely to be thanked by the ground staff. "I think when you compete as well as he does, it's very dangerous to write him off on any type of surface," said Tim Henman, who will play Ramon Delgado in the second round at Queen's. "I think with the extreme nature of his game and how much he relies on his movement and how much harder that will be for him on a grass court, you know, I think it's unlikely that he will win Wimbledon. But, you think how far his game's come on on other surfaces ... "He won Madrid at the end of last year on a pretty fast court. He's going to fancy his chances on grass, I'm sure. I just like the attitude that he just wants to come and play and challenge himself. And irrespective of whether he loses in the first round of Wimbledon or makes the final, you know he's going to be out there to better himself as a player and see how good he can be." Andy Murray will resume his first- round match against Serbia & Montenegro's Janko Tipsarevic today poised at 6-7, 5-2 and on the verge of taking the contest into a deciding set. Murray led by an early break of serve but dropped the first set on a tiebreaker and was then a break down in the second. It was a subdued start which lacked the aggression and energy which saw him reach the third round at Queen's to such rave reviews a year ago. With the help of some indifferent serving from his opponent, Murray broke back and seemed galvanised into action, hitting the ball and moving with more urgency than he had before. His fellow Britons Jamie Baker and Alex Bogdanovic lost their first-round matches. Baker went out 6-1, 6-3 to Nadal's next opponent Fish, while Bogdanovic tested Henman's French Open nemesis Dmitry Tursunov of Russia before losing 7-6, 6-4. 