 Preamble The last time Tim Henman lost a competitive match to a Brit, Canada's Greg Rusedski, was in November 1998. Back then, Steps' Tragedy topped the charts, Manchester United were on the way to a fortuitous treble, and I was working for Motor Cycle News in Kettering. Unhappy days. Today, however, Henman's record may finally be broken by 18-year-old sensation Andrew Murray. The bookies make it 5-6 Henman and 11-10 Murray (there are no prices, sadly, on the likelihood or either player defaulting due to cramp, a shoulder niggle or chokeitis). Warm-up Both players look nervous as they step on court. "Surely I am not alone in hoping that Andy Murray gives Tim 'one hell of a beating' as the Norwegians would say," says Ed Rooney. "PS I'm from Glasgow, funnily enough." First set: Henman* 0-1 Murray Henman wins the toss and elects to serve. The court is fast, with a low bounce, which should favour the British No1. However he makes a tentative start, staying back rather than serving and volleying, and goes 15-40 down. Henman saves the first breakpoint, but a fine Murray pass gives the Scot an immediate break. "You think Kettering is bad, you should try living in Darlington," says Eddie Mitchell. "One word: dump." First set: Henman 0-2 Murray* Murray holds his serve easily, after going 0-15 down. Henman's returns are all over the place - even Murray's half-paced second serves are sent yards over the baseline. "Surely it's not THE Ed Rooney emailing in during the warm up?" says Abe Froman. "See here. First set: Henman* 0-3 Murray Henman is rustier than a 1950s Corvette left in the Amazon during rainy season. Murray's simple tactic is to keep the ball in court, Henman can't respond and goes two breaks down. First set: Henman 0-4 Murray* The first tentative moment for Murray, who double-faults to go 15-30 down. His response? A perfect dropshot. Henman then earns a breakpoint with a good approach, but then sends a makeable volley long, before Murray holds to go 4-0 up. "Any prices on Murray chucking up all over Henman at the change of ends?" chuckles Anthony Donaldson. First set: Henman* 1-4 Murray Henman holds. He's still struggling, mind. The key point came at 30-30 when Murray attempted an audacious drop shot from the baseline. It danced along the netcord before falling short. Henman won that point, then the game. Meanwhile this from Ed Rooney. "To be recognised by the Sausage King of Chicago is very flattering," he writes. "However I'm not the 'Ed Rooney' but another one altogether." First set: Henman 1-5 Murray* Henman curls his face in frustration. His tactics - mixing his game up, trying to chip and charge Murray's second serve are the right ones - they're just being shockingly executed. Murray holds from 15-30 down, ending the game with an ace. "Any sign of Murray getting his haircut before Wimbledon?" asks Kevin in London. "He looks like the fifth member of Queens of the Stone Age." I'd take that over Henman's wannabe-accountant look, Kevin. First set: Henman* 2-5 Murray Henman continues to have as much rhythm as your Dad dancing at a disco. A classic volley takes him to 40-30, but Murray hits a sublime passing winner to take it to deuce. But - at last! - Henman shows a inkling of his best form, blocking back two ferocious Murray forehands before rallying to take the point, then the game. "What odds on Tiger Tim retiring approximately 10-minutes following the match?" asks Andy White. Long way to go yet, Andy. First set: Henman 2-6 Murray* Murray takes the first set with an ace, after rallying from 0-30 down. Brilliant stuff. "Here's hoping that the Daily Mail-reading hordes of Henmaniacs don't latch themselves on to young Andy when the Tiger's gone," says Neil Mainprize, who surely speaks for a nation. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 1-0 Murray Sensational from Murray, who hits a brilliant running single-handed backhand drop shot for a winner. However Henman gets his serve working to take the game to 30. "Without being crude - has something been air-brushed out of that picture of Andrew Murray you've used?" asks Paul Harvey. As if we'd do that, Paul. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 1-1 Murray Henman is consistently charging Murray's second serve now. He wins one of two approaches that game, but is otherwise outplayed by an opponent 13 years his junior. "Have they started digging up Henman's Hill yet?" ponders Nigel Babich. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 2-1 Murray Better from Henman, who strikes his groundstrikes with hitherto unseen venom on the way to winning to 15. The best game of the match, by far. "Is it me, or has Andy Murray rugged in a cute sort of way?" asks Amy Loft. It's just you, Amy. Second set: Henman 2-6, 3-1 Murray* Henman breaks to 15, albeit with a fluky netcord. The British No1 is right back in this. "This tennis malarkey doesn't quite fill the over-by-over-shaped void left in my 'working' day," splutters Alex Pinhey. "Are the forthcoming Tests going to get the full treatment from the GU? I'll need something to do during my notice period." Don't worry, Alex, we'll be covering the Pakistan series live. Meanwhile, there's - excuse the shameless plug - Is It Cowardly To Pray For Rain, our book of the Ashes series, which is available here. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 3-2 Murray A shocking service game from Henman, who barely gets a first serve in. Murray breaks to love, and we're back on serve. Second set: Henman 2-6, 3-3 Murray* Another comfortable service game from Murray, who holds to love. Meanwhile this from Jenny Thomas. "Thank god Amy finds Andy Murray cute," she writes. "I thought I was the only one." Pass me the sickbucket. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 4-3 Murray There's more love games going on than in late 60s San Francisco. Henman's certainly raised his game, but can he take this second set? "As an Englishman, is it wrong that I want Murray to bash Henman into oblivion?" says Mike in London. "You can be sure that when he wins something major, the Scots won't let us hear the end of it." Much like the English with the World Cup win, then? Second set: Henman 2-6, 4-4* Murray Another easy hold for Murray, who's generally dominating the tempo of most points. "Remember that moment in your adolescence when your Dad went to crack you and you suddenly realised that, if it came to it, you could have your Dad?" says Daniel Herman. Er, no Daniel. "We're watching the tennis equivalent now. Smack him Murray." Second set: Henman* 2-6, 4-5 Murray Wild from Henman, who at 15-15 sends a makeable forehand miles over the baseline. A superb high forehand volley from the British No1 returns the score to 30-30, but another loose forehand gives Murray the break. Murray has never won a set off Henman in practice, but now he's one game from winning this. "Are we getting a book on this epic struggle as well as the Ashes?" asks Richard O'Hagan. Perhaps a pamphlet, Richard. Second set: Henman 2-6, 5-5 Murray* Fistpump Henman! He goes to 15-40 with a brilliant drop shot, before breaking to make it 5-5. Murray rather gave that game away, mind: too many second serves and poor shot selections. "It'd be truly life-affirming if, at the last, Tim finally showed some passion with a Jeff Tarango-style outburst to win our hearts," says Neil Mainprize. You obviously didn't follow his game at Wimbledon against Tursunov, Neil. Second set: Henman* 2-6, 6-5 Murray A love game from Henman - now it's Murray's shots that are finding the net. "When Murray wins something the media will start telling us that he's British not Scottish, or at least that's what usually happens when someone from Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland wins something," points out Tim Allen. Second set: Henman 2-6, 7-5 Murray* Oh dear oh dear. A limp Murray drop shot barely makes it halfway above the net, and we're now at one set all. "Have just noticed that there are no customer reviews of Is It Cowardly ....on the Amazon website," says Allan Knox. "Surely someone out there has bought it!" Well, it's 898 in Amazon's sales rank, and climbing, so you'd hope so. Third set: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 1-0 Murray Henman wins his fourth game in a row, this time to love. "It's a pleasure to see that Andy Murray is continuing that fine Scottish tradition of being able to snatch defeat from the jaws of near certain victory," sighs Craig Jeruzal. Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 1-1 Murray* This hasn't been a classic by any means: Henman was woefully off form in the first set and a half, while Murray has gone to pieces since then. However Henman gifts the young Scot that game with a series of appalling service returns. "I haven't bought Is It Cowardly... because I thought it was the title of Henman's autobiography," chortles Carl Remmer. Third set: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 2-1 Murray After an audible obscenity from Murray - unless he was asking for a fork, which seems unlikely - Henman holds a scratchy game to 30. "I must be an advertiser's dream," says Alex Pinhey. "One click on your handy and easy-to-use link, and I found myself ordering the book. Tell Allan Knox that I'll post a review when it arrives." Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 2-2 Murray* Murray holds his serve to love. He's stretching his calf muscles now, mind ... surely he hasn't got cramp after 90 minutes on court. Meanwhile Andy Walker writes: "For a moment Henman's revival had me worried. But then I realised the Hen-choke would be that much more enjoyable after he's given himself a way back into the match." Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 3-2 Murray* A Henman double-fault and a loose forehand gives Murray a sniff of a break at 15-30, only for him blow his chance. He's shaking his head in frustration, and rightly so. "I've bought a copy of Is It Cowardly...but only because I am in it, and I want my parents to be proud of my achievements. It hasn't worked yet," sobs IT worker Anton Lawrence. Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 3-3 Murray* Murray is hobbling uneasily now and looking angry with himself. That doesn't stop him hitting a brilliant lob as he holds to 15 "Why is everyone so down on Henman?" asks Jonathon Hill. "He's been a consistent member of the worlds top 10 for the past few years and, for a nation fed on a diet of mediocrity since Fred Perry was playing in long trousers, he has been a success (with or without a Wimbledon win)." Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 4-3 Murray* Henman holds to 15. The tennis is still nervy and scratchy, but Henman is only two games from victory now. Meanwhile this from Laura Stuart. "All these references to Is It Cowardly..., the Ashes, this crazy summer of OBO-induced lowering of GDP. Is covering the tennis whilst we go on about those enchanted days a bit like when your new boy/girlfriend keeps going on about how wonderful their recent ex was? We'll never recapture the magic, you know." Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 4-4 Murray* One of the few superb rallies of the match sees Henman at the net and Murray trying to pass him: twice the British No1 blocks with stiff volleys, before sending his third into the net. At 30-30 Murray plays another superb point before finishing with an ace. "I'm staggered. Henman a success? Jonathon Hill should be ashamed of himself," says Daniel Herman. "Winning some bobbins tournament in Mongolia or wherever it was doesn't count as a success." But winning the Paris ATP Super Series event - and beating the best players in the world - as he did in 2003 surely does. Third set: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 5-4 Murray Henman holds to love. The players will have a quick sit down and then Murray will be serving to stay in the match. "I wish I wasn't a student with no telly and an essay to write so I could watch this!" says Joy from Swansea University. It's tough life with your two lectures a week and your 10p-a-pint promotions at the Student Union, isn't it? Third set: Henman 2-6, 7-5, 5-5 Murray* Murray shows no hint of nerves as he holds to 15. "Surely it's your duty to go and add a review of Is It Cowardly... on Amazon yourself," says Robert Cotterrell. "As any self respecting Amazon user knows that all the reviews on it are always written by the authors of the book/CD/DVD etc" Third set: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 6-5 Murray Henman sends a running forehand into the net and suddenly Murray has a sniff at 30-30. The players trade points and scowls, before a Henman smash takes it to 6-5. "What a surprise that Murray is hobbling," says Matt Coaker. "Everyone's down on Henman but no one mentions that his replacement is a weakling who can't go five sets." Ah, give the lad a break Matt, he's only 18. Third set: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 6-6 Murray Murray hits two superb down-the-line winners as he coasts to 40-0, but then Henman pulls it back to deuce with three superbly played points. Murray grits his teeth and holds. Tie break. Meanwhile this from Ciaran Norris. "Despite the Ashes success, the favourite English spot is still slagging our best athletes," he writes. "Henman is, and has been a success. Very few players have been in the top 10 for as long as he has - and he's done it through sheer determination. Compare that with England's talented-yet-lazy footballers. If we had 11 people with Henman's dedication in the England football squad, we'd have had some more recent victories than 1966 to cheer." Third set tiebreak: Henman* 2-6, 7-5, 6-7 Murray Murray immediately gets a mini-break after a long and intricate rally. Then a booming serve and a lucky netcord gives him a 3-0 lead. Henman's response? A good serve and a frothy forehand. Murray is now 4-1 up. A fantastic cross-court drop shot takes him 5-1 up, and this is surely in his grasp. Henman gets one mini-break back, chipping and charging and then putting away the volley, before making it 5-3. But a weak volley gives Murray three match points at 6-3. Henman saves the first, but a great forehand volley gives Andrew Murray a deserved victory 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 (7-4). He looks painfully shy as he shakes Henman's hand at the end - and seems embarrassed to have beaten his hero. But make no mistake: we've just witnessed the changing of the guard un British tennis.Thanks for all your emails, Sean. 