 Jennifer Capriati likes swing dancing. She also likes to play tennis with a swing. Yesterday, however, the double grand slam title-holder was faced with an opponent whose music was more lento than allegro, and several times it seemed Capriati's great run would be brought to a halt in only the third round. Indeed, if the woman of the moment is to be beaten, Tatiana Panova showed how it might be done. Slow and steady, pause, slow and steady, pause some more, was the rhythm which worked for the world No32 from Russia. There were times when Capriati tried to increase the pace and the frequency of the rallies, only to become frustrated. Rarely was a 6-4, 6-4 scoreline more misleading.  Twice Capriati was a break down in the first set and she was a double break down in the second set. Panova also had a point for 5-2 in the second, when she would have been serving for the set.  She knew there was a pattern she could follow and a mood she could try to generate. There was barely 5ft of the surprising Muscovite but she was big on savvy and long on patience.  Capriati was also bothered by the weather. It was cool and breezy, her motivation looked of a similarly low temperature and the trouble she had with the toss on her serve when she first came back to the tour a couple of years ago suddenly returned. The old Capriati might have been confused. But today's version knew what was happening.  "Sometimes little things aggravate me and I know I have to try to stay positive," she said in a voice of monotone resignation. "I think I have improved that part of my game. I am confident now that, when I have lapses, I can get it back."  She was confident enough too to admit what had been irritating her. "I had been waiting around, and the weather was cold and I was feeling lethargic. I thought it was too hot before but now I would take it all back again." It was this acceptance which was important.  The fourth seed broke back in the eighth game by playing Panova at her own patient rallying and by disciplining herself to not fret in the wait between points. And, when the second set looked like racing away from her, she hung in there hard.  The crucial game was the eight-deuce seventh in which Capriati saved a break point with a sprint to a drop shot and limited her reaction to a line decision with which she disagreed to no more than a sarcastic look. She finished it with an ace and that helped rev up the contest more to the kind of tempo she enjoyed.  That put her within one win of a probable repeat meeting with Serena Williams, whom Capriati beat in the quarter-finals of the French Open. The younger sister yesterday enjoyed another crunching win, this time by 6-1, 6-2 against Emmanuelle Gagliardi, a Swiss player just inside the top 100, enlivening a dull match by the assortment of different noises which accompanied her hardest hits.  It means Williams has now won three matches and six sets for the loss of only eight games - but once again she was not satisfied."I don't think I played very well," she said. "I couldn't move my feet. I thought I made a lot of errors."  But the list of self-criticisms did not end there. "I lost serve twice, which was really upsetting. My goal is not to lose serve at all," she said severely. At least her father, who walked out of her previous match, stayed until the end this time.  Williams senses that, if she gets past Capriati, she can go all the way. She was a break up immediately and soon had her opponent trying to hit too hard to contain the force that was coming at her.  Williams had her opponent in a spin as she made the last game of the contest the quickest and she even disconcerted the announcer by walking off just as he started to talk about the next match, forcing him to stop while the crowd loudly applauded her.  But Williams seemed nonplussed when asked what had been impressive about Capriati's recent comeback and the players' reaction to it. She droned on for a few sentences before coming to an uncharacteristic halt. "Oh, sorry," she explained. "I wasn't paying attention to the question." 