 As if to herald the summer season, Tim Henman yesterday gave his supporters a taste of what they can expect in the coming weeks when, here in west London, he put them through the same emotional wringer they will doubtless experience at Wimbledon in a fortnight.  As is his wont, Henman veered between losing and winning positions on his way to victory in his first match in the Stella Artois Championships, eventually beating the veteran Italian Davide Sanguinetti 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 after saving a match point late in the third set.  "It was never in doubt," said the British No1 afterwards, tongue firmly in cheek. "It's not the best match I've ever played but it's a good one to come through and hopefully I can improve for next time around."  Andre Agassi joined Henman in the third round when, playing his first match here in three years and the 1,000th of his career, he beat Australia's Peter Luczak 7-6, 6-4.  "No question, in the first match on a surface it's always difficult to find your range and your rhythm," said Agassi. "He played better than I would have wanted."  Henman might easily have said the same. Having finally beaten Sanguinetti, he blasted a ball so high over the Queen's clubhouse that it appeared to follow the Heathrow flightpath. It was an expression of both frustration and relief.  "I was just pretty happy to get out of the situation but I probably wasn't too complimentary towards myself or anything associated with the match," he said.  The relief came from the knowledge that losing would have put him in grave danger of being outside the seedings for Wimbledon because he would have failed to defend the ranking points he earned by reaching the final here last year.  As it is, he is now assured of being in the seeded 32 and can expect the All England Club's calculations - which are based on a player's grass court performances in past years - to move him up several places.  It is an advantage Henman may need after he struggled with the slow grass court yesterday and then acknowledged that he was unlikely to receive any favours at Wimbledon, where the speed of the courts is likely to be similar.  "I had visions before the [Queen's] tournament of playing really aggressively and serving and volleying a lot, but realistically that's not going to be the best tactic in these conditions," he said. "The courts are playing pretty slow and the fact that it was windy made it play even slower.  "I have raised this [court speed issue] with Wimbledon and was told that nothing had changed, which I find a bit surprising, but from my point of view there's no point in complaining about it. I just have to adjust.  "There obviously has been an effort to slow the game down and I question whether it's gone a little bit too far on grass. If it was a cricket pitch, would it be prepared to the style of our team? I'm sure it would be. Whether that should be the case in tennis, I will leave that to other people to decide."  After losing a first set in which he was initially a break up, Henman made headway after deciding that neither the breeze nor the grass was conducive to serving and volleying. Nevertheless his creativity fashioned a break of serve at 4-3 in the second set and he looked set fair when, having taken the set to level the match, he broke again at the start of the third.  But life is never as easy as that for Henman or his fans, and the Italian threatened to spoil their afternoon by first breaking back and then forcing a match point at 30-40 when Henman served at 5-6.  Having saved that, Henman was on his toes in the tie-break and Sanguinetti had missed his chance to get the Briton's grasscourt season off to the most dismal of starts.  Andy Roddick looked a good deal more secure than Henman and Agassi as he joined them in the third round, taking less than an hour to beat Rik De Voest 6-3, 6-2. Alex Bogdanovic, who received a wild card into this tournament, beat his fellow Briton Arvind Parmar 6-7, 6-4, 7-6 in the first round. 