 So here we are again The start of this morning's Aussie Open entertainment is delayed somewhat, thanks to the Grosjean-Kiefer marathon. Kiefer came out on top, incidentally, but it means Kim Clijsters and Martina Hingis are only just off court and Eurosport haven't had a chance to show their highlights package. While we're waiting, would anyone care to fill me in on the deranged goings-on in the "celebrity" Big Brother house last night? I hear there was a bit of a ding-dong between Galloway and Barrymore... Ooh, things are happening Finally, Roger Federer and Nikolay Davydenko are warming up on court. The pundits are sticking their necks on the line and tipping a hide-whipping for Davydenko this morning. "If Davydenko wins I'll invite you & 10 of your fave Guardian colleagues to stay in my Barcelona flat just off the Rambla," says Mike Crooks, making their point for them. Federer *1 - 0 Davydenko That'll be the first ace of the day then, but we also get one of those rare opportunities to see Federer drop a point as he thwacks a backhand lazily into the net. He doesn't look in the mood to be on court long though: pouncing on an unlikely fetch from Davydenko and slamming it down the line. Federer 1 - 1* Davydenko Davydenko looks like he's game for a rally or two, but Federer isn't exactly short of a groundstroke and is finding the lines by the smallest margins - twice putting backhands down the line. If the Russian can keep him on the forehand - which he does there to earn his first point in this game - then he stands a chance, but it's an anaemic looking one. Federer *2 - 1 Davydenko What a great point to get the third game going - Davydenko holding his own from the baseline until Federer finally moved in for the kill, nudging a forehand push across court and out of harm's way. Easy hold to love. Federer 2 - 2* Davydenko What a pass! Federer steamed into Davydenko's serve then chased into the net behind a drop shot, but the Russian was wise to it and planted it neatly down the line. Davydenko helps himself to a love service game. Federer *3 - 2 Davydenko Davydenko's unlucky to drop the first point, his cross-courter just failing to dip in time. And there was nothing he could do about the second, Federer thumping a forehand volley into the corner. Even Federer's mishit creeps in as the Russian simply watches. Federer 3 - 3* Davydenko Superb forehand winner from Davydenko, spinning it towards the tramline to leave Federer flat-footed. The crowd are still spilling into the arena but find time to ooh accordingly as Federer's forehand kisses the outside edge of the line. It can't really have been intentional, can it? Probably was, talented bugger. Davydenko holds though - he's not afraid to try and push Federer around the baseline a bit and it's forcing the odd mistake on the forehand. Federer *4 - 3 Davydenko A harsh decision for Davydenko - the line judge calling a perfectly placed winner out. Replaying the point won't exactly cushion the blow, especially as Federer takes it with a volley so well-placed it's not even worth chasing. But he's not having it all his own way - Davydenko watches him into the net then blasts a forehand low at his feet. Federer still holds with another corking serve. Federer 5 - 3* Davydenko New balls! And Davydenko doesn't like the feel of them: Federer drops his serve back at him and the Russian can only sling a forehand long. He has more luck on the second point, coming into the net and forcing Federer into two slightly rubbish lob attempts, the second of which drops well past the baseline - but it's wasted when he swings at the ball like he's holding a cricket bat, sending the fourth into the stands. Federer earns two break points and takes the first when Davydenko's forehand strays past the baseline. Federer *5 - 4 Davydenko Davydenko forges a chance to break back by stealing the first point but he's over eager approaching the net to push the ball into the corner and drops the second. Federer's forehand is misfiring though and Davydenko finds himself with an unlikely two break points - and takes the first with another poor forehand from the world No1! Blimey! Federer wins first set 6-4 What a rally! Both men end up in at the net after some delicately precise slices, Federer sends Davydenko back towards the baseline and Davydenko's pass looks for all the world to have snuck onto the line. The line judge doesn't think so though, and it's not long before Davydenko finds himself 0-40 down, just when he looked to have found a foothold. That's the break and the set for Federer. Federer leads 6-4, *1 - 0 A new shirt for Davydenko, and Federer is so bewitched he drops the first point - but a beautiful sliced drop shot bags him the second. And it's an easy hold in the end, Davydenko struggling to do more than get strings to the Federer serve. Federer leads 6-4, 1 - 1* Just lovely work from Federer, making all the angles from the comfort of the service line. He's being forced into some unusually poor shots from the baseline though, underhitting the backhand and overhitting the forehand. And Davydenko grabs an unlikely hold - Federer has the Russian scampering frantically but misjudges a drop shot. Federer leads 6-4, *2 - 1 The Federer forehand continues to look a mite dodgy at times, especially when Davydenko can keep up the power and keep the Swiss at the baseline. And there's even a mistake on the approach shot! He almost ran through the ball before it dribbled into the net. Davydenko still finds his apparent winners spinning back at him most of the time though - eek! Another wild Federer forehand and that's break point for Davydenko... spurned it with a wild sweep at a serve onto the forehand. There's a brief exchange of the advantage before Federer closes it out. Federer leads 6-4, 2 - 2* Federer looks about as beatable as Roger Federer ever looks, but Davydenko has to take every chance he gets. He's not having too much trouble holding - a frustrated Federer looping a forehand up into the stands - but it's Federer's serve he needs to make a dent in. Federer leads 6-4, *2 - 3 And this could be his chance... Federer comes into the net on the first three points but takes only one of them as first the net and then an errant over-the-shoulder lob conspire against him. And then Davydenko finds a stunning double-handed backhand pass to set up the break point... and takes it! My word. Not quite the cakewalk they were predicting, it seems. Federer leads 6-4, 2 - 4* That's an iffy line call and it goes against the Russian just when he needs a bit of luck. And then he rustles up a decent drop shot only to see Federer whip it back across court in front of his nose. A lovely backhand down the line, whistling past a stationary Federer, eases the pain and he finds the line across court to redeem himself further. Federer leads 6-4, *3 - 4 Even on the second serve Federer's proving unreturnable - that one straight down the line and fast enough to escape all but the frame of Davydenko's flailing racket. Some magnificent net play sees the top seed to an easy hold. Federer leads 6-4, 3 - 5* A hugely important hold for Davydenko - and doesn't Federer know it: smacking the ball away in disgust as he throws away not one, not two but three points with miserable attempts at service returns. Federer won the first set 6-4, Davydenko takes the second 6-3 Is this really Roger Federer? He drops the first two points in this must-hold game thanks to some poorly timed shots. Ah, yes, it's the right man - straight into the net to make amends. And that lethal wide serve comes out of the back pocket. But what a lob from Davydenko for set point! Just, just misses the line going across court with Federer scurrying. That's a heartbreaker for the Russian, but he gets another chance via another crazy forehand from Federer... and he's taken it! Federer fluffs it from the net and it's a set a piece. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 0 - 1* Davydenko Magnificent play from a newly-confident Davydenko, sending him this way and that before sending a searing forehand straight down the line. But two can play at that game and Federer gives him a taste of his own medicine for the second point. An ace - his first of the game? - for Davydenko, a faltering backhand from Federer, and another ace, and that's an easy hold. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *1 - 1 Davydenko Federer shapes up in that fearful, Matrix-slow-motion way in front of a slower Davydenko ball, but the vicious whipped forehand takes a hefty net cord and flies out. The next, from the baseline, finds the line nicely though. He needed that. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 1 - 2* Davydenko Another be-atch of a rally from Federer, Davydenko must have covered about six miles chasing his alternate forehands and backhands before putting the ball into the net. He responds with his fastest serve of the match - 126mph - but then gets forced into another scampering rally and ends up pinging the ball just out. That's a peach of a drop shot though, and the game is safe. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *2 - 2 Davydenko Judging by my echoingly empty inbox, I'm sat here watching this game for the good of my health. But how glad I am - this is a cracking encounter. Davydenko's not just chancing his arm, he's thinking on every point and pushing Federer all the way. Except then. Federer's just smacked him to love. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 2 - 3* Davydenko It's crucial, absolutely vital that Davydenko holds all his service games and he's going the right way about it. He pushes Federer into the corner then comes into the net to force the cross courter, which Federer duly slings wide. And his backhand suffers another blip when his attempted pass twangs markedly wide. Davydenko holds to love and Federer's shaking his head. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *3 - 3 Davydenko "Just letting you know you're not going unread," says Neil Levy, metaphorically proferring a chivalrous cloak to protect my bare behind. Or something. Better stuff from Federer, meanwhile, coming into the net and smashing a somewhat feeble lob attempt. Easy hold. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 3 - 4* Davydenko New balls! Davydenko struggled serving with the new balls last time but he's making them work for him this time - a cracking serve down the middle has Federer stretching and probably wishing he hadn't. "I am a nice bloke who likes sport and talks about football," says Andy in the City. "But I sit next to a bloke called Nick who has never played any team sports and is in the territorial army. Has anyone got a worse social life at work?" You wouldn't believe some of the goons here on the sports de[snip! Turner Employment Protection Committee]. Anyone? Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *3 - 5 Davydenko No, no, no this is not happening. I got out of bed this morning and stepped into a parallel universe [admittedly still one where it's friggin' freezing and the bus is filled with morons]. Federer throws away the first two points on his serve and then another to hand Davydenko two break points! He helps himself to the first with a terrific cross-courter that Federer can only dink up and over the baseline. "Mention a distressed whale," suggests Rob Farrow. "That'll get the nation's attention." Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 4 - 5* Davydenko Probably the longest rally of the match, and Davydenko has Federer on the run - but that pesky net must have moved up a notch or two, 0-15. And that backhand was feet past the line, 0-30. Pull yourself together man. That'll do: a smash not even Peter Crouch [brazen football mention to get the punters in] could have got to. Ah my word! The most amazing rally and if this is a boxing match, Davydenko has Federer on the ropes and is beating his face into a big bloody mess - then he fluffs the drop shot! Federer breaks with a rasping "Come on!". Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *5 - 5 Davydenko "Sorry - I had mistakenly gone to the BBC coverage and was wondering why there were no pithy remarks along with the commentary," says Keric Morris, rightly believing that flattery will put his name in lights. "What has happened to Fed Express? Is he just toying with us or having a crisis of confidence?" If that umpteenth straying forehand - his 30th unforced error - is anything to go by, this is a genuine wobble. As Federer wobbles go, of course. We're not talking a Barrymore emotional meltdown here. He holds. Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer 5 - 6* Davydenko Another long forehand from Federer and he kung-fu kicks the ball in anger. And then a shout of frustration as another forehand blunders into the net. Davydenko is playing the match of his life here. Maybe that's pushing it, but he must be one of only about five people to have really worried Federer in the last 18 months. He's making the angles and smashing every Federer lob back over the net with gusto.  Third set [6-4, 3-6] Federer *6 - 6 Davydenko By 'eck that's a lovely backhand from Davydenko, far nicer, at least, than the return shot, which Federer puts wide and long to concede the first point on his serve. He's wrong-footed by one down the line from the Swiss, but makes it 15-30 at the net. "I think Federer believes he's so much better than everyone else, he likes to give the other guy a bit of a chance before he demolishes him, just to keep the crowd interested," says Jay Van Rensburg. Hmm. Davydenko's got two set points here. I don't think this is a ruse to keep the fans in the arena. The first goes begging as a scampering Davydenko can only stretch to put the ball into the net, and he sticks the second in exactly the same spot after a marathon rally. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7) That dodgy forehand is back again, Davydenko goes 1-0 up in the tiebreak, but Federer levels with a cute little shot that even has his opponent smiling... Federer forehand into the net to hand Davydenko a 2-1 lead... sloppy return from Federer for 3-1... ludicrous backhand from Federer to make it 4-1 Davydenko... 4-2 as Davydenko struggles to get anything on a wide Federer serve... 4-3 thanks to a sweet volley from Federer... 5-3 - the most exquisite pass from Davydenko! Federer barely moves his arm in a terrible backhand for 6-3 and set point... Davydenko goes for the on-the-line winner and misses! 6-4... and that serve from Federer wasn't going anywhere but clean through, 6-5... Jesus, Mary and Joseph! Davydenko makes the wrong shot choice and ends up slinging a backhand into orbit: 6-6! Davydenko regains the lead with another - and this is a real worry - careless backhand: 7-6... Federer rescues a sixth set point with a scorching serve, 7-7... and Federer gets a big dollop of luck, his mishit backhand landing in and pushing Davydenko into a dreadful forehand: 8-7 to Federer... and Federer claims a 2-1 lead thanks to a Davydenko double fault. A horrible, horrible way to concede the set after all that. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *0 - 1 OK. Fresh start now. Davydenko takes first blood by forcing a badly-aimed volley, then his acute slice strays wide for 0-30. Ooh, another new shirt for Davydenko, and two break points. This is incredible. Another break. "Barrymore accused Gorgeous George of using him as an easy target to win public sympathy ahead of the eviction vote," explains Tom Chivers to give me my daily CBB fix. "The elected representative for Bethnal Green and Bow retaliated with a rather cruel 'oh poor me... poor me... pour me a drink' stab at Barrymore's addiction problems. It all went off from there, with Big Dennis reportedly telling Little Chantelle that "where I come from you'da been hit by now", which was touching. And Pete Burns sat back having sparked the mayhem with a little smirk on that malevolent, alien, cave-fish face of his." Righto. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 1 - 1* There's a swarm of insects on the pitch! They think it's all over... squish. It is now. The ball boy's quite rightly splodged them all with a towel. Federer's backhand is in bizarre mode: first slinging the ball into the net to fall behind, then whipping it over and right onto the line for a splendid point. And that's a spectacular backhand down the line for break back point. Duly handed over. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *2 - 1 New balls! And a new racket for Davydenko. No doubt that was the problem all along. A sticky grip or something. It's worked a treat, anyway - he nudges Federer into the corner then watches serenely as the cross-court return sails wide. There was no putting that forehand back into court though - Federer slammed it towards the baseline. Game Federer. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 2 - 2* Yet again, I have to type the words 'Federer', 'forehand' and 'into the net'. He has a heavy net cord to thank for keeping him from running after Davydenko's next shot, but again he finds the net himself - shouting "What the hell are you doing?" as he does so. I can't claim to have seen every Federer game ever in the world ever, but personally I've never seen him so obviously irritated by his play. "Nooo!" he yells as another backhand sails into the stratosphere. Yes. Yes I'm afraid you're awake. "I don't think that Federer is trying to keep the crowd interested by playing bad," says Raymond Starke. "I think he is just creating the illusion of losing for himself, so he can say to himself after the match: 'Wow, that was close. Men's tennis is really competitive! There is still so much to play for!'" Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *3 - 2 No, no, that racket's not right either. Another change for Davydenko, and a forehand that pings nicely off the string but flies way past the baseline. Game Federer. "Presumably as a writer for theguardian you must have an above average IQ, and yet you dedicate at least some of to your life watching celebrity big brother," says Jim Davey. "Bizarre." You're right. I did ignore it, until I saw about 10 minutes of the ludicrous George Galloway. And now I can't stop watching him making a damned fool of himself night after night. The man makes me physically shake with rage. Now that's television. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 3 - 3* Clinical from Davydenko, rolling around a backhand volley and finding the lines with microscopic precision. He punishes Federer's move into the net with a whipped forehand pass, then smashes another desperate lob attempt through the floor. While we're on the subject of CBB, can anyone explain how and why 23-year-old people qualify as "children"? Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *4 - 3 The Fed Express is steaming back through town, it seems (he holds to love), but unless he takes a detour through Davydenko's serve, it's going to be another tight finish. Keric Morris is back again. "With Fed Express looking like getting back on track, and big hair Baghdatis cruising through the bottom half of the draw," he says, "are we going to have a retro sixties beard and sideburns final?" It's the broadcasters' dream. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 4 - 4* Lethal serve to get things going from Davydenko, and the now standard long Federer forehand adds the second point of the game. He's getting angry again. Davydenko does himself out of a love service game with a wild forehand, then sticks a volley plum into the net. From 40-0 to deuce in the blink of an eye... and Davydenko looks, for want of a better way to express it to you, cream crackered. Luckily Federer's backhand looks similarly fatigued, and he survives a scare to hold. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *5 - 4 That's not a line call I'd have liked to have had to make, and it goes Federer's way when perhaps it shouldn't. He's not getting an easy ride though - his own mistakes, rather than Davydenko's effort, pulling it back to 30-30. Two top drawer serves take him to the hold, mind. Can Davydenko survive even the next game? Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 5 - 5* Yes, is the answer. Federer capable only of putting the ball out of court or in the net. Suggestion is that he needs the pressure of the tiebreak to get his pecker up, but I'm not sure he can bank on being so lucky again. Easy hold for Davydenko. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), *6 - 5 Federer's definitely looking to his serve to get him clear here, Davydenko's weary arms have no answer for the bullets hailing over the net. He'll need to do more than that - when Davydenko does get on the end of it, he's winning the points. He can't steal the game though. Federer leads 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 6 - 6* You can see Davydenko, like Federer, desperately wants to take the points with his serve, and he's enjoying reasonable success - Federer's return wellying straight into the net. He could do with some big serves - he shapes for a shot down the line and somehow sticks it into the net. Match point for Federer... rescued! Federer doesn't like the line call but Davydenko's whipped forehand definitely found some white - and he takes the advantage with a backhand on the same line! And holds with a stunning forehand! Tiebreak time, folks! Federer wins 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 7-6 (7-5) Federer claims the first point... then hands Davydenko the second with a wide backhand, 1-1... That line again for Davydenko! 2-1... just, just, just missed the baseline for 2-2... corking wide serve from Federer for 3-2... 4-2 with ease... the most amazing forehand cross-court pass! 5-2... but there's a stunner of a shot down the line from Davydenko for 5-3... 5-4! Davydenko's working him around the court again... but there's no answer for that wicked forehand, 6-4... first match point saved! 6-5! Davydenko with a smashing smash! But there it is: finally, Federer finds a serve to beat Davydenko and he takes the semi-final place. Thanks for all your emails and for following the game with GU. I'll be back to take you through Nalbandian v Baghdatis tomorrow morning. 