 Dmitry Tursunov beat the teenager Richard Gasquet 6-1, 3-6, 6-7, 6-3, 7-5 in Pau yesterday to earn Russia a place in the Davis Cup semi-finals. Russia, who beat France to take the trophy in 2002 and led the World Group quarter-final 2-1 overnight, also beat the hosts at the same stage last year. Tursunov, who was standing in for the injured Russian No1 Nikolay Davydenko, edged past the home favourite Gasquet after a match of fluctuating fortunes taking nearly 3½ hours. "It would have been more difficult for me if I had not served so well," said Tursunov. The 19-year-old Gasquet said: "He played a great game even if I could have won. But he served extremely well and I gave everything." The France captain Guy Forget added: "I believed Richard could win until the end. Well done, Russia. We all gave our best. In six months or a year, we'll be better." The world No16 Gasquet was a bundle of nerves early on and dropped the first set in just 25 minutes, collapsing under a series of forehand winners by Tursunov. He regained his confidence to break the Russian world No34 in the seventh game of the second set to level the match. Both players held their serve in the third set and in the tiebreak Gasquet trailed 4-2 before wininng five successive points for a 2-1 lead. Tursunov then relaxed and overpowered his opponent to claim the fourth set in 29 minutes. He eventually broke Gasquet in the decider's 11th game and ended the contest on his first match point. Russia had opened up a 2-0 lead after Friday's singles when Marat Safin, back from a seven-month injury layoff, outlasted Gasquet over five tense sets and Davydenko outfoxed Arnaud Clément in four sets. But France hit back in Saturday's doubles as Michael Llodra and Clément beat Tursunov and Mikhail Youzhny. In other Davis Cup World Group results, Australia's Wayne Arthurs and Chris Guccione won reverse singles matches yesterday to complete a 5-0 victory over Belarus on a Rebound Ace surface at Kooyong in Melbourne. Arthurs, 35, beat Serguei Tarasevitch 7-6, 6-2 in a match that would have featured Lleyton Hewitt and Max Mirnyi if Australia had not clinched the quarter-final on Saturday. In the other reverse singles match Guccione beat Alexandr Zotov, 6-1, 6-3. Reuters 