 Tim Henman might have guessed what was going to happen when the Wimbledon referee Alan Mills - known as "the rain man" - came to the Dubai Open yesterday.  Sure enough, Henman was pursued by weather eerily like that which so often disrupts events in SW19. It forced him off court seven times over six hours, and ended with a frustrating 7-5, 6-4 defeat by the world No14 Ivan Ljubicic.  Mills is here to referee next week's women's event, and Henman was trying for his first semi-final since the US Open more than five months ago.  But the British No1 was subjected to conditions unusual in the desert and they resulted in yo-yoing arrivals, helter-skelter departures and an infuriating deterioration in Henman's predicament every time play stopped.  It was all so oddly British. The rain was more often a drizzle, making the players unsure whether to come off, several times causing them to sit in their chairs and wait. Twice Henman became embroiled in testy exchanges with the umpire, and the mood eventually infected his play.  "It was incredibly frustrating," he said. "It's raining and the umpire doesn't take control. He kept telling us to play till the end of the game. But if it's raining you come off - the score's irrelevant. It couldn't be more frustrating because I was very happy with my form up till now. You don't expect this sort of thing in the desert."  Within five minutes of their fifth restart after a 1hr 20min delay Henman's hopeful situation - he was putting pressure on the Croat's serve at deuce at 5-5 - had been transformed into a highly discouraging one.  Ljubicic immediately held serve with an ace, and Henman then dropped serve for the first time. The first set went swirling down the drain, along with the rain-swept detritus, by 7-5.  Ljubicic then profited from delay No6, when there was a nine-minute interval at break point on another of his service games in the second set.  Again he restarted quicker than Henman, saving the game and breaking back to 4-4. And when they came back for the seventh time after a 40-minute snack and scratch in the club house, it was over in a trice.  This time the tough-minded Ljubicic, who has had more wins on the tour - 19 - than anyone else in 2005, promptly served an ace to complete his service game and broke serve by belting a stiff-looking Henman second serve for a winner and for the match.  It brought back painful memories of Henman's Wimbledon semi-final with Ljubicic's friend and mentor Goran Ivanisevic four years ago, when repeated rain delays spread their contest over three days and helped frustrate the Briton's best ever chance of reaching the final.  The change in the weather made it ironic that Henman had described the conditions as the "fastest on the tour" after his match with Greg Rusedski on Tuesday, an opinion which brought a humorous rebuff from Roger Federer.  "I also think it's quick here," said the Swiss, "but Wimbledon's quicker. That's because movement there is so different and difficult.  "I have a feeling here that it's difficult to control the ball, which makes it [seem] quicker. But the quickest? That's overboard. I will have to speak to Tim and tell him to calm down." 