 Andy Roddick, the sixth seed, is in the semi-finals at Wimbledon after winning a five-set tussle against Lleyton Hewitt. The American's 6-3, 6-7, 7-6, 4-6, 6-4 victory over the former champion means he will now play Britain's Andy Murray in the last four on Friday. In an epic encounter, it was Hewitt who blinked first in the fifth and final set. Facing a break point at 4-4, the Australian hit a forehand long to gift Roddick the chance to which to serve for the match. Given Roddick's huge serve, the game was all but up for the battling Hewitt, whose wayward volley confirmed the inevitable. Roddick, the two-time runner-up here in 2004 and 2005, now has the chance to reach another final at the All England club. To do so he will have to beat the No3 seed, Murray, who he lost to here in straight sets in 2006. Roddick's opponent on Friday will have the support of the Centre Court crowd, although he gained some preparation for that obstacle today, playing Hewitt and his loyal band of supporters, the Fanatics. Those fans had little to cheer about early on however, as Roddick took advantage of a nervous start by Hewitt to take the opening set with ease. Two double faults in a row from Hewitt in his first service game gifted Roddick an early break which quickly became a 3-0 lead. Hewitt, who won the Wimbledon title in 2002, grew in confidence as the match progressed, but was unable to make much of a breakthrough on Roddick's huge serve and the sixth seed was able to close out the set 6-3 in just 27 minutes. Hewitt, famed for his scrapping qualities, was unlikely to wilt so easily however, and came back strongly at the start of the second set. He earned his first break point in the fourth game and produced a smooth volley at the net to take a 3-1 lead. The sweltering conditions on Court One began to take their toll though, and Hewitt was unable to maintain his level, letting Roddick break to retrieve a foothold in the set game. With a tie-break required, errors from Hewitt gifted Roddick to gain a 5-2 lead and with it surely the set and the match. Yet Hewitt had other ideas, and fought back to draw level. A tense battle ensued, with neither player giving the other an inch, before Hewitt found inspiration with a winning backhand and before a winning backhand a long return from Roddick to edge the tie-break 12-10. After a second set which took 61 minutes to decide, both players were flagging in the heat, and a break of serve from either end of the court was not forthcoming. That led to the predictable tie-break again, and once more it was Roddick who began on the front foot. This time he would not cede the initiative and quickly wrapped it up 7-1 to go ahead again. Hewitt was struggling at the start of the fourth set, and Roddick plucked out three break points in the opening game, winning the third when put a forehand into the net. But Hewitt simply refused to lie down and broke back in the fourth game of the set after Roddick hit into the net. The crowd were on the edge of their seats for much of the set as both players continued to produce a mixture of winners and errors. But when another tie-break looked likely, Hewitt dug deep to set up a break point in game 10 and Roddick duly gifted him the set 6-4. Yet despite producing tennis of the highest quality in the final set Hewitt could not find another break, and instead it is Roddick who can now eye a place in Sunday's final. 