 Elena Baltacha, described by her coach, Alan Jones, as '21 going on 18' because of the time she has lost to illness, will be the only British female competing in Melbourne after three, thumping straight-set wins in qualifying. Jones also describes Bally - pronounced ballet - as 'a bit of a bruiser' and it is unlikely her three victims in qualifying would disagree. The veteran Belgian Els Callens, who reached the last 32 of the 2000 Australian Open, Jaslyn Hewitt, Lleyton's little sister, and the canny American Teryn Ashley, beaten 6-3 6-3 yesterday, all folded against the might of Baltacha's serve and groundstrokes.  The hope must now be that Baltacha goes on to fulfil her potential after a congenital liver disorder blighted her early years as a professional. She will never be entirely free of its effects, but Jones says it is manageable.  Baltacha, who came to Britain in 1989 when her father Sergei Baltacha, the Soviet football international, signed for Ipswich - her mother Olga was an international heptathlete - demonstrated what might lie ahead when she upset the seeded South African Amanda Coetzer at Wimbledon in 2002. After that, doctors spent months determining the exact nature of her illness. She returned to regular competition only last year.  Baltacha, who lives in Enfield, Middlesex, has avoided a seeded player in the draw, but her opening match in the early hours of tomorrow morning against Katarina Srebotnik won't be easy, the Slovakian having already won a title this year in Auckland. Mary Pierce, the former French Open champion, is Baltacha's likely prize if she does beat Srebotnik.  The much bigger prize of who becomes the first grand-slam champion of 2005 is likely to be fought out between the Russians and Americans.  At the start of 2004, the likelihood of the game's four most cherished singles titles belonging to Russian women would have been almost as improbable as that old tennis scuffler Boris Yeltsin winning one of the men's titles.  Fast-forward to today and the nation that had never won a women's 'slam' before last June now hold three of them: Anastasia Myskina (French Open), Maria Sharapova (Wimbledon) and Svetlana Kuznetsova (US Open). It is just conceivable that with Elena Dementieva seeded sixth in Melbourne that come Saturday week there are four different Russians each with one of the championships.  The reasons for this outbreak of Ova-achieving are complex. These pages conducted one of the first investigations before Wimbledon two years ago and found one recurring theme to be that in cash-strapped Russia parents drove their children that little bit harder to come up with the meal ticket. 'It's much more hands-on as far discipline is concerned,' one British coach told us. 'The ability to administer a clip round the ear isn't so easy for a coach.'  Sharapova, 17, fits better than anyone the profile of the youngster from whom an ambitious parent - she and her penniless father hiked off to Florida when she was six - has coaxed the last ounce of athletic ability. Those who doubted the legitimacy of her Wimbledon win in July can no longer question it after she followed up by winning the year-end championship in Los Angeles in November.  'It is unreal the way I stuck in there,' Sharapova said in the afterglow of her Los Angeles triumph, giving a hint of the self-regard that has put a little grit into her relationship with the other Russians.  Sharapova's chance of winning is obviously a good one, just how good would be easier to judge if we knew what sort of form the Williams sisters, Venus and Serena, were in. We will find out soon enough.  · You've read the piece, now have your say. Email your comments, be as frank as you like, we can take it, to sport.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk, or mail the Observer direct at  sport@observer.co.uk 