 It was in Australia eight years ago that the Williams sisters were seen competing at the same grand slam for the first time, and where they played their inaugural match against each other at this level in the second round, with Venus, the older of the two, claiming the initial bragging rights. Since then Serena, 24, has won seven slam titles, including two here, and Venus, 25, has won five. Life has moved forward at a tremendous pace for both but gradually their commitment to full-time tennis has waned. And for Serena it is beginning to look terminal. Venus, her game riddled with unforced errors, was toppled in the opening round last Monday, although she at least appeared reasonably fit. Yesterday Serena's palpable lack of conditioning caught up with her in the most obvious of ways. After surviving a desperately close match against China's Na Li, she was beaten in the third round 6-1, 7-6 by Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia. It was a shockingly inept performance by the reigning champion who, since winning the title a year ago, has failed to reach another final anywhere and has managed only 16 victories. Such is Serena's talent and fighting spirit - which flared briefly in the second set - that it would be unwise to write her off just yet. Before Wimbledon last year Venus had not won a slam title since 2001, and her performance on the grass was as invigorating as it was surprising. Serena clearly has it within herself to rediscover her former glories, but not unless she can be persuaded to train and practise properly to meet the physical demands of the women's game, which are increasing year by year. Serena is an altogether different build to her sister and clearly needs to exert herself that bit harder. Against Hantuchova she lumbered around the Rod Laver arena with ever-growing frustration, wanting to blame everything other than the fact that her sheer lack of fitness meant she was frequently out of position or off balance when she executed her shots. It was painful to watch. Not surprisingly she remained in denial afterwards. "I was very ready," she said. "I was really set and very ready to play and compete, yeah. I had enough preparation. I just didn't play my best at all. I just was hitting balls every which direction." Hantuchova, who is coached by Britain's Nigel Sears, will next play Maria Sharapova, who last year held three match points against Serena in the semi-finals. Victory is not beyond Hantuchova, with Sharapova short of match practice because of injury, although the Russian teenager is certain to move with altogether more freedom and purpose than Serena. Between 2002 and 2003 Hantuchova, 22, reached three successive slam quarter-finals at Wimbledon, the US Open and here, and entered the top 10. Since then she has struggled to re-ignite that form, and for some time battled to overcome an eating disorder. Now fit and healthy, that early promise may be about to come to fruition, for this was the first time in her last 12 slam attempts that she has progressed into the last 16. She is a perfectionist who actually aims for the lines, so much so that Sears developed routines by which he taped extra lines within the existing ones on the court in an effort to try to get her to give herself a little more margin for error. Last night she played with the utmost control, hitting the ball exceptionally deep and forcing Williams, who had previously been undefeated in 16 matches at the Australian Open, into numerous errors. Hantuchova has also been using one of the US's leading sports psychologists to help her stay focused. Time and again she turned her back on Williams between points as she settled herself for the next serve or return of serve. The first set was interrupted by a storm with Hantuchova leading 3-1. As the roof was being closed, which takes about 20 minutes, Serena was deep in conversation with her mum and coach, Oracene. It must be assumed they were talking tennis rather than the price of handbags, but whatever was said it made little difference upon the restart. It was only when leading in the second set that Hantuchova began to suffer a little from nerves, and a series of double faults crept in. Williams secured a 4-2 lead while never looking convincing; once her opponent had steadied herself the result was rarely in doubt again. Williams saved three match points at 5-6 and another in the tie-break, but it was only delaying the inevitable. After her own defeat Venus said it was necessary for both the sisters to return home to Florida, work hard on their game, and play more matches. The tournament at Key Biscayne in March will provide the first indication as to whether their intentions are serious. For Venus it may be easier; for Serena, who it seems has never fully recovered from her knee operation in August 2003, the future appears uncertain. 