 Tonight the US Open will commemorate the 50th anniversary of Althea Gibson's historic US women's title with the Williams sisters, who have won 14 grand slam titles between them, playing back-to-back matches on the Arthur Ashe court. "Althea Gibson opened the door," said Zina Garrison, the US Fed Cup captain. "Venus and Serena knocked it down." Rather unkindly, though perhaps pertinently, the American television pundit Mary Carillo said that the Williams sisters should have been more dominant and changed tennis history even more. When asked to comment Serena replied: "Well, I think I've had a little more effect on tennis history than she has." It was a fair riposte, though most believe that had Venus and Serena pushed themselves somewhat harder they might have doubled their tally. However, that has not been their style. Once again Serena enters a grand slam without having played since the last one while Venus, who won the Wimbledon title, has not exactly extended herself either. That said, they must both be considered as possible winners. When they put their minds and bodies to it, they remain the most formidable of opponents. Serena came from nowhere to take the opening grand slam event of the year in Australia, with Venus following suit on the grass. In between, Belgium's Justine Henin, the world No1, underlined her prowess on the red clay of Roland Garros, and is seeded to meet Serena in the quarter-finals here. The top half of the draw contains both the Williams, as well as the two up and coming Serbians - Ana Ivanovic, the French Open finalist this year, and Jelena Jankovic, who won the Wimbledon mixed doubles title with Jamie Murray. On this occasion Jankovic is concentrating on her singles. This has left a somewhat threadbare bottom half of the draw, the best possible news for Russia's Maria Sharapova, the reigning champion, and No2 seed. Last year, accompanied by the song I Feel Pretty from West Side Story, and dressed in black, she finally won her second grand slam title, and appeared poised to dominate the sport in terms of achievements rather than endorsements. However, since then she has struggled with a shoulder injury that has affected her serve and stymied her chances of more major titles. In the Australian Open final she was pulverised by Serena, and similarly so by Venus in the fourth round at Wimbledon. "I got to realise that recovering takes time but most importantly, I'm feeling really good," Sharapova said. "I'm serving probably the biggest that I've served this year." There were signs last year of a little more variety in Sharapova's game, although the long-standing injury has again made her appear brittle under pressure. So much of the women's game consists of one-dimensional power hitting, recently made a virtue of by the WTA's extraordinary marketing decision to inaugurate a so-called power index, designed to recognise the hardest-hitting, most powerful players on the Tour. It's a pity they did not decide to inaugurate a skill index instead. No amount of designer dresses - Sharapova will be in red this year - can disguise the sterile nature of so much of the play. At least in terms of excitement nobody can be sure who will win here. Sharapova will be hoping she can come through to the final a week this Saturday unscathed and that those in the top half of the draw will have battered themselves to a standstill. However if she has to face either Serena or Venus, she could well end up with a face matching the colour of her dress. 