 Tim Henman will drop out of the world's top 30 next week, pushed aside yesterday by the American Vince Spadea, whose 6-1, 6-3 quarter-final victory over the Italian qualifier Filippo Volandri made him as unlikely a semi-finalist at the Monte Carlo Open as Henman was last year.  Henman began the week ranked No22. He will fall to No31 on Monday and faces an uphill battle over the next couple of months to be seeded for Wimbledon, where he has been a semi-finalist in three of the past four years.  Even assuming his injured right shoulder is on the mend, the British No1 is unlikely to pick up many points during the clay-court season as several specialists could push him lower.  A few Spaniards, and probably Brazil's Gustavo Kuerten, will not enter the Championships but, if Henman fails to make the world's top 32 the week before Wimbledon, the seeding committee cannot bump him up, leaving him extremely vulnerable in the opening week.  At the start of this week few would have imagined that 28-year-old Spadea would last long, although he reached the semi-final of another Tennis Masters Series in Indian Wells last month on the hard courts. The man from Boca Raton, Florida is not the most spectacular player and has not had to beat a single seed on his way to the last four. However, he played well enough four years ago to climb into the lower reaches of the top 20 before suffering the most spectacular dip in form in 2000, when he lost 21 consecutive matches before beating Greg Rusedski in the first round of Wimbledon. By the end of that year he had plummeted outside the world's top 200 and must have been sorely tempted to step off the tennis treadmill.  Spadea is a dogged character who took inspiration from Andre Agassi, Jennifer Capriati and Austria's Thomas Muster, all of whom overcame considerable setbacks. "I didn't have their status and didn't have any wildcard opportunities, so it's been a hard climb."  Today Spadea plays Juan Carlos Ferrero, the No1 seed and title holder, who in his quarter-final crushed his fellow Spaniard Albert Martin 6-0, 6-2. The 23-year-old Ferrero was surprisingly beaten by another Spaniard, Albert Costa, in last year's French Open final but this year he believes he can win his first grand slam title. "I feel better physically this time and I will be more experienced."  In today's other semi-final Argentina's Guillermo Coria, unseeded, plays last year's beaten finalist, Carlos Moya of Spain. Coria, who will enter the top 20 for the first time next week, beat his fellow Argentinian Juan Ignacio Chela 6-1, 6-1. Moya defeated France's Julien Boutter 7-6, 6-2. 