 Lottie Dod provided the first of the rare instances of a sportswoman appealing to wear sexier gear without being prompted by an agent, PR man or Sun photographer - and our picture gives just the tiniest clue why. Observer Sport can exclusively reveal that poor old Lottie, who is regarded as the first tennis prodigy having been only 15 when in 1887 she won Wimbledon, pioneered the campaign for females to be more appropriately dressed for running, jumping, ball-swatting etc. In an 1897 essay we have unearthed, she wrote: 'Ladies' dress is always more or less of a trial when taking exercise, and the blessings of our sex would be heaped upon any one who could invent a practical, comfortable, and withal becoming costume. It must [her italics] be becoming, or very few of us would care to wear it.' The rest of that part of the essay dealing with dress is well worth a listen: 'As the skirt must be endured, it is important to have it made somewhat short, reaching to the ankles, and equal in length. That is, seemingly equal; but in reality a lawn tennis skirt should be cut half an inch or an inch shorter at the back than the front. It will then appear uniform in length all round, and will not trip you up when you run backwards in volleying, say, a high lob, which skirts, as ordinarily made, are much inclined to do. It should be about three yards wide. If less, it would be rather apt to catch, when one makes sudden springs from side to side, as in volleying; and if wider, the wind blows it about and perhaps hits the racket when we fondly imagine we are going to drive the ball.' Dod acknowledged there had been even worse times: 'Women certainly dress far more suitably nowadays when taking violent exertion than they used to do, and it would be impossible in these days to see a competitor in a large open tournament sallying forth to play a single on a broiling June morning, dressed in black velvet with long black kid gloves! But the spirit moved one of my opponents (years ago) thus to attire herself.' Dod, from Bebington, Cheshire, and known as the 'Little Wonder', was uniquely qualified to lead a down-with-dress-fascism campaign on behalf of all sportswomen given her ability in a range of activities. The first female tennis player to volley and smash, not that easy in the sort of outfits she had to romp around in, she was also British golf champion in 1904, played international hockey, fired a mean arrow on the archery range, was an impressive ice skater, keen cricketer and was the first female to go down the Cresta run. Unbeaten at Wimbledon, where she won five singles titles, she also took part in tennis's first Battle of the Sexes. She did the game's distaff side proud when she played Ernest Renshaw at Exmouth in August 1888 in a charity match between Wimbledon's two singles champions. Both players won 16 game as Renshaw prevailed 2-6 7-5 7-5. All right, Dod was allowed a 30-0 start in each game, but swaddled up as she was that must have made things just about even. Dod's battle for sportswomen to wear more suitable clothes lifted off like an underpowered First World War biplane, taking so long to become airborne it seemed it might run out of runway. In the 1920s, the stylish Frenchwoman Suzanne Lenglen did her best to liberate women, but her near contemporary, the American Elizabeth Ryan, indicated how stuck in the nineteenth century women's sportswear had been when she said: 'All women players should go on their knees in thanks to Suzanne for delivering them from the tyranny of corsets.' And yet even in the 1930s, when the skirt's hemline had travelled far enough north to allow an occasional glimpse above the knee, Helen Wills Moody, the great American player of that era, still looked as though she was dressed to go shopping in the high street. 'Gorgeous Gussie' Moran caused uproar at Wimbledon in 1949 with a hemline so outrageously high that those spectators who did not avert their eyes could, surely not, see lace-trimmed knickers. This caused a huge amount of shock, but admiration, too. A racehorse, aircraft and special sauce were named after the Californian beauty. Would Lottie Dod have approved of where her campaign, started more than half a century earlier, had now arrived? Almost certainly. It had an effect right across sport with the Fanny Blankers-Koen's bloomers soon disappearing from athletics, swimmers no longer looking as though they had just emerged from Victorian bathing machines and even cricketers appearing in short skirts before they imitated the men and opted for long trousers. At the start of the Open era, women's tennis used the slogan, 'You've come a long way baby'. By Lottie Dod, they have. 