 Andy Murray having exited, his small role in the Stella Artois Championships done and dusted, Tim Henman stepped on to centre stage as the last British survivor and, after beating Paraguay's Ramón Delgado 6-2, 6-4, proclaimed that he was playing his best tennis on grass since he reached his fourth and last Wimbledon semi-final in 2002. There are many who would love to believe that Henman, 32 later this year, still has it in him to win the title he once said was his "destiny". Wishful thinking, no doubt, although after the most miserable of times last year, when his back problems threatened imminent retirement, it is good to see his smile return. "I would be the first to admit that for the last couple of years I haven't enjoyed the grass because I wasn't playing the way I should have. But today, and in my first match against [Andre] Agassi, it's been a different story. So I'll just try to build on that." Today he plays France's Nicolas Mahut, a surprise 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 winner against Radek Stepanek, the world No12. The slow-down at Wimbledon since 2002 - slower grass and heavier balls - has been well documented, as has Henman's antipathy. It might have been expected that he would adjust accordingly, but he has raged against the change and fallen into the trap of what the former England batsman Ken Barrington called "two-man's land" - that is, neither forward nor back. Henman believes he has finally got the balance right between constructing points from the baseline and cutting matters short at the net. Why has it taken so long? In truth, the reasons are no clearer than why it took him such an age to sort out his back. No matter. He is currently happy, and a happy Henman might just pull up a few clods of Wimbledon grass. Happiness was also tangible when Rafael Nadal made a winning debut here only three days after capturing his second French Open title. He beat Mardy Fish, last week's winner at Surbiton, 7-6, 6-1 - like shooting fish in a barrel. There were moments of uncertainty but once he reached the tie-break he accelerated away like a Spanish cyclist up a Pyrenean col. He also loved the crowd. "All the people kept silence during the points. I feel like I am playing in a very important place." Queen's positively purred. Andy Roddick, who has won this title for the past three years, has lost only three matches on British grass in that time, all against Roger Federer at Wimbledon, but his sequence at Queen's appeared to be ending when the 21-year-old Canadian Frank Dancevic, ranked outside the top 100, won the first set. The American had left Roland Garros at a low ebb, having retired in the first round with ankle trouble when two sets down to Alberto Martín, but was hoping the return to grass would lift his spirits. "I normally switch over pretty quickly but, let's give credit to him, in the first set he played unbelievably," he said after beating Dancevic 2-6, 6-4, 6-3. 