  What is he trying to achieve?   The grand slam of the four major titles - Australian Open, French Open, Wimbledon and US Open - in the same calendar year. Only two men have done this: the American Don Budge in 1938 and Australia's Rod Laver in 1962 and 1969.    Can he do it?   He is good enough; the unknowables are whether he can maintain his concentration and fitness to win 28 singles in the four most competitive tournaments. Budge and Laver achieved their grand slams when there were fewer good players around and they had to adapt to only two surfaces, the French being on clay and the others on grass. Now the Australian and US Opens are on different types of hard surface. Some argue, though, that three grass-court events made it more of a lottery because the speed of grass allowed a smash-and-grab big server of moderate ability to cause an upset. Hard surfaces suit the all-rounders, such as Federer.    What has he achieved so far?   His greatest achievement in terms of titles is winning three of the four grand slams last year, the first time this had been done since 1988, when the Swede Mats Wilander failed only at Wimbledon. It earned him $6 million - and no one has done that in a year since Pete Sampras in 1997. In terms of what he might go on to accomplish, what may prove a more significant achievement is the dominance he has established over his main rivals. Last year, his defeat by Tim Henman in Rotterdam in February - handsomely avenged three times since, including last week in Kooyong - was his only loss against a player who finished 2004 in the top 10. He defeated Lleyton Hewitt six times and Andy Roddick and Marat Safin three times each. And he has done it all with a game that is as aesthetically pleasing as it is possible to imagine.    Why is he so good?   He is athletic with the perfect build for tennis at 6ft 1in and about 12-and-a-half stone. His movement is so graceful that, like a duchess, he would never do anything more vulgar than gently perspire. He has the complete range of strokes, all of which he plays, at worst, very well. He has an astute tennis brain allied to reflexes that enable him to work out and execute dazzling strategies in nanoseconds. And he has the courage and imagination to improvise. American sports columnist Harvey Araton wrote that tennis fans in the US 'should by now have recognised his grass-court predilection for serve and volley, like Pete Sampras, and his ability to dictate from the baseline, like Andre Agassi, and his talent for creating his own geometry on court, like John McEnroe'.    Has he any weaknesses?   Identifying them is an exercise in hypercriticism. He occasionally loses concentration - bored with being so good, possibly - and he may not be the best volleyer on the circuit, an accolade for which Henman is a strong contender. Although he has won big titles on clay and it is a surface he knew well from an early age, Federer looked ill at ease on it, constantly losing his footing, when he suffered his only 2004 grand-slam defeat, by Gustavo Kuerten in Paris. Also on clay, his backhand can become a little erratic if he is forced to play too many shots at shoulder height.    How do you beat him?   Get him on an off day is Roddick's answer. 'Luckily for us, we [Federer's rivals] only have to be better on one day and not for the whole year,' says the American assessing the prospects of an upset at the Australian Open, 'so we'll take that attitude and really go after it if that happens.' Henman is not so sure. 'If you take Roddick's serve, Agassi's returns, my volley and Hewitt's speed and tenacity, you've probably got a good chance against Roger. That's a lot of people involved in beating one player.' Play him in the early rounds is your only hope, according to the former Australian Open champion Jim Courier. 'If you catch him in the semi-finals I think you're pretty much done,' says Courier.    What do people say about him?   'He plays the way I dreamt of playing,' says John McEnroe. 'He's the most well-rounded player I've ever seen,' says Patrick McEnroe. Hewitt reckons: 'There's no shame at the moment in losing to Roger.... He's a hell of a player and he's going to go down as one of the greatest.' Rod Laver, one of only two men to do the 'slam', says: 'He has all the talents and mentally he's one step ahead of the other guys. He's a natural. He knows the games of all his rivals and adjusts automatically.' Paul Annacone, formerly Pete Sampras's and now Henman's coach, says: 'You've got to look out for the guy who can beat the best players without playing his best. Roger can do that.'    What does he say about himself?   'For me, the game feels natural. I'm living the game when I'm out there. I feel when a guy is going to hit the ball, I know exactly the angles and the spins, I just feel I've got that figured out. It is a huge advantage. Also, when it gets important, I feel I can raise my game.' Federer has also nominated himself as the player he would like most to watch, and did it so reasonably and innocently that 'conceited little so-and-so' never entered anyone's mind.   Age: 23 (born 8 August 1981)   Birthplace: Basle, Switzerland   Residence: Oberwil, Switzerland   Marital status: Single   Plays: Right-handed   Turned pro: 1998   Coach: Tony Roche   World ranking: 1   Singles titles: 23, including four grand slams: Wimbledon 03, 04; Australian Open 04; US Open 04   Singles career record: Won 315/lost 116 (2004 74/6;  2005 8/0)   Prize money: $14.2 million 