  The golden boy of tennis is back in town. No, not Boris Becker, nor Stefan Edberg, nor Björn Borg. It is the late, great Lew Hoad. A new biography of the Australian star of the 1950s and '60s, winner of Wimbledon in 1956 and 1957, has just been published and is aptly titled The Golden Boy .  The finest player of all time? Possibly. At his best certainly the greatest of the greats that I have seen. Light on his feet yet with the punching power of a fierce fighter. I could marvel at Rod Laver and McEnroe, their flair and artistic strength, but Hoad's ruthless efficiency would take my breath away.  Can you admire an executioner? One of my great treats in tennis was to partner Lew in the Italian Champs of 1972. Hoad was then 37, yet still his golden dazzle and shining example reflected on me. I played some of my best ever tennis with him. We were in the final and thrashing Nastase and Tiriac by two sets to love. All Lew Hoad and I could do was stand, watch, marvel at the inaction of the umpire and then occasionally play some tennis until darkness descended. When Hoad said he could see no more in the fifth set, officialdom finally intervened by awarding the title to the Romanians. Thirty years later, it grips my stomach just thinking about it.  Last week pointed to the scandalous decision of the world's number one Gustavo Kuerten to sit out Wimbledon in order to sit on his surf board instead. Alex Corretja, too, prefers rambling down the Ramblas even though he is in the world's top 10. Because of the enormous hype and publicity surrounding big events today, players more and more regard themselves as specialists. They can afford to as well, for they are so handsomely rewarded. So much so that they can forego the goldmine that is Wimbledon, which remains the most glittering prize in tennis.  A minor detail for some, it seems. The lack of grass-court tournaments plays its part, of course. When I first started playing the circuit I could make hay from grass three times in a British summer. The season started early on at St Anne's on Sea, then tourneys such as Wolverhampton, Manchester - the Wimbledon of the North - southwards to Surbiton and Beckenham. All attracting leading lights. Bristol, Queen's and Wimbledon provided lush pickings. Beyond these you could play on lawn all the way through to Eastbourne in September.  Elsewhere, Australia had its grass tournaments culminating in their National Championships. The US Champs at Forest Hills highlighted a run of six to eight lawn tennis events in North America. Most people then understood why our sport was called lawn tennis. Boris Becker and Steffi Graf convinced the Germans of its delights and Halle was born. The Dutch, too, showed sympathy with tea and tennis on the lawn courts of Rosmalen.  Then... Certainly not in chronological order but Australia loses its grass. Forest Hills' shaky turf goes flushing down the Meadows and lawn tennis becomes plain tennis. Suddenly the mighty Wimbledon and its few remaining satellite events are questioned by a galaxy of players who shake their heads at the thought of grass-court tennis, question its validity and say they are on a fast track that does not necessarily stop at Southfields or Wimbledon Park. The AELTC retains the 'L' but otherwise jumps to attention to offer nigh perfect grass to encourage the conscientious objectors. This certainly helps to placate, but the overall scene has still not been attractive enough to lure world number ones Thomas Muster, Marcello Rios and now Kuerten. The proposal to move Wimbledon back one week will undoubtedly help to attract everyone to SW19 and the overall grass-court cause.  I would love to hear what Brazilian Maria Bueno has to say about Kuerten's absence. She won the singles at Wimbledon in 1959, '60 and '64 and was runner-up in '65 and '66. Not only that but she won the doubles no fewer than five times, which brings me once more to the women and their loyalty to the overall game, lawn tennis or tennis.  Not only do they cross the Channel like troopers after the French to switch from clay to grass but they also commit themselves to the total game. They use the whole court, tramlines and all. Not for them that wingless chicken, a plain, plucked singles court. The women elect to play both singles and doubles. Oh I know they only play best of three sets and a lot of the early rounds are cakewalks. Nevertheless, you remain a product of your environment. Pressures are still there for them and yet these women commit. Just as I believe the definition of a real cricketer is someone who loves fielding, so a lover of tennis should play singles and doubles. As a result the women give to the game far more of themselves.  Tennis is still bigger than they are. Times have changed for the top men. Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Wayne Ferreira are today's exceptions who tackle both disciplines. Kuerten says it is too much to play Wimbledon after the French, though he plays doubles in neither. Apart from the many who have gone from one singles final to the other in recent times (Andre Agassi, Jim Courier, Ivan Lendl, Stefan Edberg, Borg), consider those such as Frank Sedgeman in 1952. Finalist in the French singles - winner of the doubles. At Wimbledon, winner of both singles and doubles. Best of five sets in every round. Then in 1956 another Aussie. Crowned French champ and runner-up in the doubles. A few weeks later at Wimbledon, winner of both. Lew Hoad's golden year. He was an icon for players. The game of a god, the looks of a film star and yet forever humble. Immensely strong, his right arm alone could have hoisted Nastase and Tiriac high above his head. Powerfully compact, upright and poised, short, steely shots right from the hip. A specially shortened racket, a silencer with his volleys - the shortest, sharpest of them all. Wimbledon welcomes back the Golden Boy.  