 Nationality: Belgian. Age: 20. Lives: Bree, Bel. Height: 5ft 8in. Weight: 10st 10lb. Turned pro: 1998. Tournaments won: 13 (0 grand slams). Wimbledons: 4 since 1999. Best performance: quarter-finals 2001. Career prize money: £2,914,800. World ranking: 2 (highest 2). On court In a nutshell Clijsters, the most likely challenger to the Williamses, has been snapping at the sisters' heels for the past year without breaking through for a grand slam title. Split them in the world rankings when she hopped up to No2. Grass or pass Has a game to suit any surface and adores Wimbledon, even though her best effort is losing a quarter-final in 2001. Distinguishing feature Clijsters is an inveterate giggler and can be seen stifling a chuckle even in the tightest match situations. She also has a willingness to do the splits at the slightest provocation, showing she has inherited some of the flexibility of her mother Els, a top gymnast. Hot shot Stronger and quicker than most, she openly admits to having "a footballer's legs", presumably inherited from dad Leo, who was Belgium's player of the year in 1988. Pressure point A tricky one. Clijsters does not seem to do anything slowly. Winning or losing, she hurries through the games. Outside court Hero or zero Been invited to Belgium's Royal Palace and is always recognised in Belgium. This may mean little, though. "Of course they recognise me," she says. "It's not a very big country." Happy clappies In among the top gymnasts and football aces is the world No1 Lleyton Hewitt. During the French Open final in 2001 he went through his own routine of cap-straightening and deep breathing before every Clijsters serve. Little good it did her. Don't mention Taxes. Leo Clijsters suggested Kim would emigrate to Australia unless the Belgian government lowered her taxes, which stood at around 60% of her winnings. "We are open to offers which cost us less," said a candid Leo.  British claim Would be happy to move to London, where she already enjoys shopping. Likes to drag Lleyton to the theatre too. Luvvy rating High, according to Serena Williams: "Kim is not only a good tennis player but she's a great person and I think she'll make a great champion because she is always positive." 9/10 The winning formula demeanour x mobility + character = another famous Belgian 