 Preamble Morning all. George Dobell is at Essex v Leicestershire and Mike Simmonds is at Glamorgan v Northants. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Watch video highlights here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield. 11.15am: Morning from Garon Park, writes George Dobell. Did you know that Southend has the longest 'pleasure pier' in the world? No, nor did I. But apparently they do. Though what defines 'pleasure' is debatable. It's long, certainly, and stretches a long way out to sea. But then so do sewage pipes. Size isn't everything. Anyway, it's all set-up for another absorbing day of cricket here. It's no exaggeration to say that the next few hours could define Essex's season. If they have a good day, their promotion hopes will be revived. A bad day and there season looks certain to fizzle out. Much depends on Ravi Bopara. He was magnificent yesterday – really impressive – but he'll need support. Ryan ten Doeschate - averaging just 7.85 in the Championship this season – has already gone, chipping limply to mid-wicket. His top score in his last five Championship innings is just five. 11.36am: Things aren't going to plan at all for the hosts, writes George Dobell. They've already lost two wickets this morning, with Adam Wheater the latest to go, driving loosely to cover. That means that, since the loss of Billy Godleman last night, they've lost four wickets for just 33 runs. From the time that Jaik Mickleburgh went to the final ball of last night, Essex have lost three wickets in 19 balls for just 17 runs. But Bopara remains. And while he does, Essex retain hope. It's been a high class innings, too. While few of his colleagues can hit the ball off the square, Bopara has not given a chance and is beginning to unveil some typically elegant strokes. He's currently 78 not out and Essex lead by 138 with just four wickets in hand. 12.05pm: Southend is not peaceful, writes George Dobell. It's full of arcades. But I didn't resort to alcohol. No, instead I visited a museum and discussed Ludwig Wittgenstein with a bunch of local kids. They just loved it. Wittgenstein was actually a fascinating fellow. Three of his brothers killed themselves. Which might, you'd think, have given his mum and dad cause to think that they might be doing something wrong as parents. His family was one of the richest in Europe. But 'Witty' - as his friends no doubt called him - felt that money corrupted. So he gave it all away. Which sounds great, doesn't it? Except he didn't give it all to charity or to the poor. Oh, no. That would have corrupted them. So he split it among the richest families in Europe. There's logic for you. Anyway, Bopara, no doubt squeezing his challenging views on Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus to the back of his mind, is continuing to bat masterfully at Garon Park. He's 80 not out and Essex have a lead of 148. The game's building to a fascinating conclusion. 12.24pm: We may just have seen the key episode in this game, writes George Dobell. Ravi Bopara, on 80, played back to a ball from Wayne White only to see it roll back onto his off stump. Somehow, however, the bail remained unmoved and Bopara survived. He's now on 86 and, with David Masters, he's added 34 for Essex's seventh-wicket. The hosts now lead by 160. 12.39pm: Glamorgan are staring a fourth straight Championship defeat in the face, something that has not happened since the 2005 season – the last time Glamorgan were in the top flight, writes Mike Simmonds. It proved an horrendous experience for the Welsh county, who have not quite been the same since. Six years ago Glamorgan lost 14 of their 16 Championship matches. If they lose this one, which they seem destined to do, it will be their sixth in 11 outings. Despite losing a fourth wicket this morning – James Middlebrook caught off Dean Cosker – Northamptonshire have just gone to 500, an overall lead of 248. 1.16pm: Lunch here at St Helen's and time for the Northamptonshire tail to reflect on how they might approach the first few overs after lunch in extending their 258 first innings lead, writes Mike Simmonds. They could do well to take guidance from Don Shepherd, Glamorgan's record wicket-taker, who nearly 50 years ago to the day came in at No10 against the 1961 Australians at Swansea and plundered 51 in 15 minutes from only 11 scoring shots. Just imagine what he might have done with a modern 3lb bat. 1.17pm: I've been staying on the Royal Terrace in Southend. Which sounds impressive, doesn't it? But, it turns out the link with royalty is tenuous, writes George Dobell. Apparently Princess Caroline - who I've never heard of - went there in 1802. 1802! I'm no historian, but I reckon that's pretty much before the dawn of time. Insisting there's any royal link with the place is surely misleading. After all, I'm pretty sure Prince Charles once used the A38(M) to leave Birmingham. We don't call it the Prince Charles Highway. Perhaps inspired by the royal connection, Masters and Bopara continue to bat very well. They've now added 50 for the seventh wicket, with Bopara bringing up the landmark - if a 50 stand can be a landmark - with a quite beautiful on drive for four. The lead is 177 and the pendulum is once more swinging towards Essex. 1.18pm: Ravi Bopara's first century since early May has given Essex the initiative at lunch on the third day, writes George Dobell. There will be a temptation from some to dismiss this innings. The attack, critics will say, was modest. Yet, in the circumstances, this has been a high-class innings. On a tricky surface and with his side in some trouble, Bopara has demonstrated excellent technique and temperament. His century took 198 balls and included 11 boundaries. David Master has played well, too. He's so far contributed 24 to a seventh-wicket stand of 61 which has helped Essex rebuild from the loss of two early wickets this morning. The lead is now 188. This may well prove to be a match-defining partnership. 2.15pm: To answer Mike Selvey, Southchurch Park is still in existence, writes George Dobell. I'm told it was abandoned as the festival venue due to repeated vandalism. They've cunningly taken a slash and burn approach to the design of this ground. It's pretty much vandal proof. In fact, I'm pretty sure any vandalism would only improve things. They're back on here. Masters has just been dropped - a tricky, low chance to Jefferson at slip - off the impressive Buck. Leicestershire's heads have dropped a bit, too. They're going to need in excess of 200 to win this. Just spoken to Nadeem Malik, who has bowled very well. He thinks the pitch has slowed a bit and batting may be a little easier. He also says the ball that hit the stumps when Bopara had 80 "hit it hard." To be fair to Bopara, it's the only moment of trouble he's had in a masterful innings. 2.43pm: Leicestershire have finally made a breakthrough at Garon Park but the damage may have been done, writes George Dobell. Bopara and Masters added 111 for the seventh wicket – the highestpartnership of the game – and have extended Essex's lead close to 250. Masters' contribution was 48. It's his highest score since April 2010. The manner in which he was out, gloving a sharply lifting ball from White to second slip, might not perturb Essex too much, either. There's still plenty in this pitch and Bopara is still going on 130. 2.49pm: We have a record here at St Helen's writes Mike Simmonds. Northamptonshire have amassed the biggest score by a county side at Swansea beating Leicestershire's 536 in 1996. It's not the record score on the ground. That belongs to the West Indians, who during the long hot summer of '76 scored 554 for four when their captain, Clive Lloyd peppered the short boundaries in a two-hour double hundred. Northants have left Glamorgan to score 300 to avoid an innings defeat. 3.04pm: According to Glamorgan chief executive Alan Hamer it looks as if the county will be taking at least two of their five home Twenty20 games away from the Swalec Stadium next season with Swansea and Colwyn Bay the favourites to host matches, writes Mike Simmonds. Over the last two seasons all Glamorgan's T20 games have figured at their Cardiff headquarters but crowds have been generally woeful. In a bid to make some much-needed cash the county are hoping to appeal to the west and north Wales cricket fans. That would mean the matches starting at a decent hour when families can come along rather than appealing to the beer-swilling hospitality set. 3.58pm: It's tea at Southend and Essex now lead Leicestershire by 282 runs, writes George Dobell. If the hosts go on to win this game, they'll have much reason to thank Ravi Bopara. He's unbeaten on 159 now and has looked head and shoulders the best player in the game. He's only the third Essex man to score a first-class century on this ground and the first to do so since 2005. The other two were Alastair Cook and Andy Flower. Whatever happened to them? Maybe I've been at Garon Park too long but I'm becoming irritable. The way the PA announcer just lectured the spectators about not using their mobile phones was so rude that it would make Gandhi want to give him a slap. But I'm English. So I'll sit here and 'tut' under my breath instead. 4.01pm: A defeat inside three days seems to have been averted by the Glamorgan second wicket pair, Alviro Petersen and Will Bragg, who have put on exactly 100 by tea, writes Mike Simmonds. There is still much work for the Welsh county to do to offset Northamptonshire's victory charge. The Division Two leaders still have the cushion of a 195-run lead after declaring 300 ahead and it all looked very rosy when David Lucas trapped Gareth Rees in front with the 10th ball of the innings to have the home side five for one 