 Teenagers who are being groomed as tomorrow's champions will even spend time at the Royal Marines' Commando Training Centre in Devon to toughen them up. British competitors have just produced their worst showing at Wimbledon for 17 years, with some accused of being unfit, overweight and mentally unready. The fact that only Tim Henman and Katie O'Brien made it beyond the first round has triggered a huge debate about players' lack of hunger and professionalism. The usually mild-mannered Henman condemned the sport for condoning 'years of mediocrity' and funding contestants who did not deserve backing, and called for a fresh start based on a 'more ruthless' approach. Roger Draper, chief executive of the Lawn Tennis Association, told The Observer he is so frustrated by years of underachievement by players he regards as over-indulged and complacent that, in future, teenage prospects will face 6am starts, long gym sessions, dietary supervision and far more training. 'We have got to have more of a boot camp mentality, a boot camp regime. There's been too much comfort for some players and not enough discomfort. We have got to make it as uncomfortable as possible. People shouldn't be afraid of hard work,' said Draper, a former rugby league player who is taking dramatic steps to transform tennis. 'Instead of players rocking up, having a gentle workout, not doing any hard work in the gym or on the practice court ... then having a nice lunch and going home, they will have a much more intensive, demanding regime. They'll have to train for four hours a day, then do weights in the gym, show the right discipline and work ethic, and make sacrifices, like giving up friendships and having their education disrupted if they want to realise their dream of becoming the world number one.' Draper said he was exasperated because although Britain had talented players, too many seemed not to have the desire and hunger needed to compete at the top level. He did not name those he views as slackers. However, the LTA has long regarded Alex Bogdanovic, the British number three who lost in straight sets in the first round last week, as lacking commitment and disliking the rigour of a full day's training. In 2004 he was kicked out of its training programme for his attitude. British number four Naomi Cavaday took a set off ex-Wimbledon champion Martina Hingis before conceding defeat in their opening round clash, but many observers thought she looked overweight. While Andy Murray and Tim Henman have become top-ranked stars who win tournaments by putting in the thousands of hours of hard work experts say are needed to fulfil potential, others have not. Draper last week discussed with the LTA's newly created 'strength and conditioning' team the idea of taking young players down to the marines' base in Devon. 'The fitter you are, the more likely you are to be mentally sharp, too, and also to be able to overcome adversity - and tennis is full of adversity', he said. 'Players are taller, fitter and stronger than ever before and we have to match that. Guys like Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer are like boxers with tennis rackets in their hands.' As England's rugby coach in the late Nineties, Clive Woodward began taking his squad for three-day training sessions to the Marines' base at Lympstone, where, following tests of stamina, character and teamwork, they confronted the assault course used by the armed forces' most renowned fighters. In 2003 England won the Rugby World Cup. Draper has taken advice from Woodward and Bill Sweetenham, the tough Australian coach who has used unforgiving methods to turn many of Britain's leading swimmers into world-class performers. Punishing training regimes are alreday the norm in sports where Britain is a world leader, such as rowing and cycling. Brad Gilbert - the American brought in to coach Murray on a reputed £500,000-a-year salary as one of Draper's first moves after taking over the LTA last year - believes that endless hours in the gym breed a mental toughness lacking in the British game. The LTA is likely to stop funding some of the present crop of players who last week performed so lamentably at Wimbledon and concentrate instead on younger talent. It has recently held two training camps at the new National Tennis Centre in Roehampton, south-west London, at which players as young as six have undergone tests of agility and fitness as well as technique. Murray's mother Judy, the LTA's talent and performance manager in Scotland, helped analyse exhaustive data gathered at the sessions that were used to decide who deserved a place in the LTA's development programme. John McEnroe, the three-time Wimbledon champion turned BBC commentator, said the LTA was right to focus on emerging youngsters rather than adult players. 'I don't think you should concentrate on the 20 year olds now, if it came to a choice of supporting them or working on the next generation coming through - 12, 13 and 14 year olds,' he said. 