 Previously there were two but this year, Spice Girls fashion, two become one. Instead of two jolly pavement crocodiles snaking north and south from gate three in Church Road, overnighters will have a softer surface under their sleeping bags in Wimbledon Park. To deter queue jumpers, on arrival at the end of the queue you are issued with a dated and numbered card, establishing your position and ensuring you don't have to sit cross-legged through the night or do unsavoury things with empty water bottles to maintain your place. At about 6am, after a night interrupted by the strains of Gingangooly and the fumes from egg sandwiches, the Wimbledon knocker-uppers, or stewards, will wake you, ask you to fold up your chairs and tents and bunch up. The hardy souls at the front will then be issued with wristbands, guaranteeing the opportunity to purchase places on the show courts, while the ones further back will be restricted to the relative Siberia of the outside courts - fine in the first week but only for doubles junkies later on. The stewards lead the procession, formerly like Middle England on the march but now far more cosmopolitan, past left luggage and towards the entrance kiosk. Sir Cliff plays the part of the Tower of London ravens in SW19 but other A-Listers are there to be bagged, particularly in the second week. Sir Sean Connery draped himself in the Saltire to support Andy Murray a few years back and fellow 007 Pierce Brosnan usually turns up. Former tennis partners Tony Blair and Lord Levy are unlikely to sit together this year but the former prime minister can always chat to his chum Sir Alex Ferguson who would prefer it to hobnobbing with Arsène Wenger. Anyone who's anyone and anyone who thinks he or she is tend to pop up and sometimes it must seem as if you're stuck behind the rope at the UK Gold Christmas party as Parky and Jonathan Ross, Cilla Black, Bruce Forsyth, the Hoff, French and Saunders, Nicholas Parsons, Dannii Minogue and Rula Lenska scuttle past.  A cultural divide runs straight through the catering facilities on offer - one half is all summer wedding fayre, poached salmon, chicken in tarragon, salad swimming in mayonnaise, champagne and Pimm's while the other is more Deansgate, Manchester at 2am - fish and chips, chow mein, pizza, lager and cider with ice for the Irish wannabes. They also sell about 60,000 Dutchees, the famous Wimbledon hot dogs, which, although looking highly suspicious are pretty delectable but frowned upon by those frankfurter purists, American tourists in lemon blousons. The price of strawberries and cream this year is £2.25 which allows you to comply with tradition without the usual requirement to return home minus the shirt on your back.  The picnic area has gone under many ridiculous aliases dreamed up by over-alliterative berks during the past decade, primarily Henman Hill but also Rusedski Ridge, Mount Murray, Murray's Mound and the barely more credible Murrayfield. Despite the daft names, there is a wonderful atmosphere in front of the big screen on the terrace in front of No1 court as the show-court exiles gather together, noshing their way through a thousand celery sticks, with their optimism and passion undimmed by the sneery cynicism their critics have tended to dollop on them. There is a new range of clothes designed by Ralph Lauren for sale with the long-sleeved pullover in "herbal milk" (that's cream to you and me) top of the shop at £200. There is a sleeveless version for £100, which goes to show why Rafael Nadal is no mug for refusing to shell out for sleeves if they are £50 a pop. The famous towels, which are so durable your kids will be having probate disputes about them, are an extremely reasonable £24 though go for men's classic purple and green version rather than the women's magenta and raspberry unless you've got a Barbie-themed bathroom. You can buy a can of used tennis balls, proceeds going to charity, if you are inspired to blow the dust off your ancient Slazenger or you could always use them as a luxury treat for the dog. The Corporation now sends an army to Wimbledon and to devour its huge output you have to avail yourself of the interactive facility. It comes into its own during the first few days when Britons are being humiliated by teenage Serbs on the main channels, forcing you to grab the opportunity of going to Court No3 for a half-decent match. This is where you will probably find the likes of Mark Cox and Barry Davies now that the main punditry duties have become the realm of those with the experience of having won a slam event ... and Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski. Steer clear of the button during the second week, except if there has been plenty of rain, unless you have a particular hankering to catch up with Peter McNamara and Paul McNamee in the senior men's invitational doubles. Here's a clue: they are not the ones with the £15 giant tennis balls hovering outside the players' entrance looking for people to sign them. They tend to range from city types who breeze in at 4pm, having done a rapid change in the back of a cab into corporate mufti - beige linen suit, powder blue shirt and shades with brown lenses - to those with family money and the eccentric dress sense that seems to come with their mother's milk. They are liable to wear boating blazers in broad deck-chair stripes and paisley cravats, like mod revivalists, and smell of bay rum. The younger women all dress like the girlfriends of Princes William and Harry, the rest like Karren Brady or Betty Boothroyd. The BBC has engaged the services of a commentary box virgin, Tim Henman, for the fortnight and has high hopes of him. But when beginner's nerves get the better of him and the man formerly known as "C'mon, Tim" becomes "For God's sake come on, Tim" don't fret - you're never more than a couple of hours or a stint "with our friends from American television" away from John McEnroe. The expert's expert, there is simply not a better commentator in sport - erudite, passionate, insightful, playful and witty - he is on a level that every ex-pro should aspire to. Forms formidable double acts with Sue Barker and Boris Becker and there is always a sense of danger when he is doing one of those two-handed segments, not because he might say something silly, but because a mischievous look is never far from his eye. He is doing Six-Love-Six again this year, so Jeff on the M6 had better be on his mettle or his question might be shot down as witheringly as the treatment Larry David experienced during Mac's hilarious cameo on Curb Your Enthusiasm last year. Radio coverage of Wimbledon, although it has a noble history, has been categorically usurped by television over the past 20 years. It can be difficult to settle into it - the rallies are so fast and the crowd noise so distracting that it often seems that you and the commentator can never quite keep up. But once you tune your ears in it can be a rewarding experience, especially with experts of the calibre of Frew Macmillan and Jana Novotna. To enjoy it, though, you will have to get past Pat Cash's constant use of the perpendicular pronoun. Drowning him out by screaming often helps. Not quite the force it was in its Harry Carpenter and Gerald Williams pomp but the daily highlights package remains a palatable bite-size round-up of the day's events for those too busy/employed to enjoy the ebb and flow of a long match. It will be helmed by John Inverdale this year with input from McEnroe and Henman. There will be the customary Hawk-Eye debate and the usual round of player interviews when they slump in a chair as Garry Richardson doggedly pursues a line of questioning. An 8pm start seems a little early, particularly when matches are still being played at that time, but schedulers have their own mysterious agenda. Let's hope tradition is maintained by the use of the old stirring closing theme, Arnold Steck's Sporting Occasion, instead of an Oasis ballad over a montage of a tearful departing player. 