 When Caroline Wozniacki is at home in Denmark, the attention from the paparazzi is so intense that she has occasionally resorted to wearing a disguise. In the rest of the world, the world No1 can walk around relatively unnoticed. The 20-year-old Dane arrives at Wimbledon still chasing her first grand slam title and deals with questions as to why she has yet to break her duck on an almost daily basis. She deals well with the criticism but knows that in the end, only results truly matter. "All the girls would like to be in my position and be ranked No1 in the world," she said on Saturday. "I've had a good year and won five tournaments so far this year. I enjoy this position." Unusually, Wozniacki warmed up for Wimbledon by playing on hard courts in Copenhagen, a commitment to her home country, even if she now lives in Monte Carlo. "In Denmark the paparazzi hide in bushes or wait outside wherever I am staying and they like to follow me around," she said. "Sometimes in the summer I put sunglasses and a hat on, and that helps." The one thing Wozniacki can say is that she is a Wimbledon champion, having won the girls' title in 2006. "I know I can play really well on grass," she said. "I've won Eastbourne before, I won the junior title here. I know that I can play really good tennis. It's important just to focus and just enjoy it." If Wozniacki hides from the limelight, Maria Sharapova positively thrives in it. After changing coaches and rackets at the start of the year, Sharapova has improved everything in her game, particularly her serve, which she has remodelled to great effect. Winning a clay-court title in Rome last month gave her a massive confidence boost and she followed that with a run to the semi-finals of the French Open. Back on the grass, she is vying with Serena Williams to be the bookies' favourite. After surgery and 10 months out of the game in 2008 and 2009, Sharapova said that a second Wimbledon title would be an even sweeter feeling than her three grand slam triumphs. "When you get back from injury, you basically start from zero," she said. "So if I do [win the title], it would be the biggest achievement in my career." Andy Murray is approaching Wimbledon as relaxed as he has ever been and he is determined to enjoy it, he tells Kevin Mitchell 