 The Tennis Integrity Unit, whose job is to stop corruption and match-fixing in the sport, is so poorly funded “it is like a fig leaf”, the culture, media and sport select committee was told on Wednesday. The accusation – made by the Conservative MP Damian Collins – came after Nigel Willerton, the director of the TIU, had confirmed that it had received 246 alerts from betting companies about potentially suspicious matches in 2015, compared to 91 in 2014, 46 in 2013, and only 14 in 2012. Yet Willerton also admitted that the TIU had a budget of only $2m a year, funded by the tennis authorities, and a staff of just six – including only three investigators, none of whom was a betting expert. He also admitted he had no idea who were the 16 players alleged by a BBC and BuzzFeed report to be involved in match-fixing. Willerton said he would be getting another investigator and an analyst/researcher to beef up his team, but that did not appear to convince the members of the select committee. As Collins told him: “Tennis is a huge outlier compared to other sports. The opportunity for gambling and match-fixing is huge. I feel sorry for Mr Willerton, he’s not quite a lone ranger but he leads a small team on a small budget.” Collins added: “It’s a tiny amount of money, a tiny amount of resource, to investigate a worldwide problem. And there are clearly question marks about the independence of the TIU.” Willerton was also interrogated over the Guardian story that two international umpires were secretly banned last year, but denied that tennis’s authorities had deliberately buried the news. The Guardian reported this month that Kirill Parfenov, an umpire from Kazakhstan, was decertified for life in February 2015 for contacting another official on Facebook in an attempt to manipulate the scoring of matches. Meanwhile Denis Pitner of Croatia was suspended for 12 months in August 2015 for regularly logging on to a betting account from which bets were placed on tennis matches. When pressed on why these bans were kept secret, Willerton replied: “I can assure the committee that tennis has not got anything to hide. My understanding is that under ITF rules, it didn’t have to publish these findings. In December it changed the rules, so as of the first of January those sanctions would have been announced. It wasn’t tennis trying to cover up, it was just the ITF’s policy at that time.” Willerton, though, did confirm another element of the Guardian story – that the problem of corruption at the lower levels of tennis had got worse since bookmakers started taking bets on Futures matches. “I don’t think it’s a coincidence that the markers have risen since then,” he said. However, Willerton denied that these alerts were necessarily indicative of match-fixing. “All the betting operators have different ideas of what constitutes an alert,” he said. “On many occasions an alert may have been triggered by something like a player being injured.” Willerton admitted that the problem of match-fixing was particularly bad in Argentina, Chile and Russia, but said proving wrongdoing was not easy. “And alerts at the top level are very few and far between. It’s when you get down to the Challenger level and below. In grand slams in 2013 there was one, 2014 there was one and 2015 there was three. We have never had an alert at Wimbledon.” However, the select committee was told that the Pinnacle, the biggest of all the bookmakers who set prices on tennis matches, did not have a memorandum of understanding with the TIU, which means the scale of the problem could be bigger than advertised. Meanwhile the select committee also questioned whether the International Tennis Federation, the sport’s governing body, was doing enough to tackle corruption. In 2012 it signed a lucrative five-year deal worth $70m with the data company Sportradar to distribute live scores from very small tournaments around the globe. Yet Willerton admitted it gave only $200,000 each year to fund the TIU. Jesse Norman, the select committee chair, said: “Isn’t that an amazing disparity and doesn’t it show a big question mark about how seriously tennis takes this?” Speaking afterwards, Collins agreed, adding: “The concern would be the slightly blasé attitude towards the scale of the problem. What for us echoes with other sports is that unless someone presents someone from the governing body prima facie evidence of corruption which is clear cut, then there’s a presumption that there’s nothing going on, there isn’t a problem, where people are aware of rumour, suspicion, cultural problems within the sports, and I think more needs to be done to address those.” The committee also heard from Chris Kermode, the executive chairman of the Association of Tennis Professionals, who said the sport’s new independent review into the match-fixing allegations made by the BBC and BuzzFeed showed that it was being transparent. “We have demonstrated very openly that we are not being complacent and I believe there is no wrongdoing,” he said. “But can we do things better? For sure.” 