 With no British singles players left at Wimbledon, Jamie Murray, the nation's No1 doubles player, is probably the most realistic candidate to carry the nation's hopes into the second week of the Championships. He and his American partner, Eric Butorac, started their campaign yesterday with a 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 first-round win over Oscar Hernandez and Potito Starace. Murray, whose injured brother, Andy, watched from the player balcony above Court Two, and Butorac will face Jonathan Erlich and Andy Ram in the second round. The Israelis are former pupils of Murray's and Butorac's Canadian coach, Louis Cayer, a doubles specialist who is now on the Lawn Tennis Association's payroll. Murray and Butorac credit Cayer as one of the reasons why they are now No14 in the team rankings and have won three ATP Tour titles this year, including the Nottingham Open on grass last week. "He's got us on the same page as far as formations and tactics, to the point where, though we talk between points, we don't always need to," said Butorac. Murray said: "If we perform well, we've got a good shot to beat anybody." Britain's only remaining woman, Katie O'Brien, was thumped 6-0, 6-1 by the 18-year-old Michaella Krajicek yesterday. The defeat continued one of the worst Wimbledons in a while for home players and made Roger Draper's recent words echo strongly. The Lawn Tennis Association's chief executive blamed the "comfort factor". He said: "We have to start saying, 'Look, you've got good facilities, you've got good coaches, you've got the best sports science, what are you doing when you look in the mirror at night? You can't blame the LTA any more'." Which means any British player with little chance of reaching the top 100 may be asked to leave the system. Some will no doubt say O'Brien should after yesterday's disappointing effort on Court Three. That, though, would be harsh. The Yorkshirewoman lost because she played a bad opening service game, giving a flying start to a dangerous opponent. Chasing the game, O'Brien tried too much, causing unforced errors. She ended up looking a little naive. She is a gutsy player with a potent forehand. But her serving needs to be more consistent and better directed. At 21 she has the time and desire to do so. Draper, though, has made it clear that "my buzz word is going to be 'ruthless'". This has already manifested itself with O'Brien being denied a one-on-one coach until she makes the top 75. Wisely, though, she stuck to the hymn sheet. "It's good the LTA have been tough on players moaning about things, which isn't really justifiable considering the funding they've had over the years. The LTA is telling us you can't get there with half-hearted attempts, you've got to throw everything at it." Krajicek would not be drawn on whether the LTA's tough line with English players is valid, though she was more revealing when asked if British players were a soft touch. "I really don't know. They are really nice girls, that's what I know." Draper will not sleep better for knowing that. 