 The clearest message to come out of the opening day of the Davis Cup match against Australia was that without Tim Henman or Greg Rusedski Britain's chances of holding on to a place among the world's top 16 teams over the next few years are virtually nil.  There was only a small glimmer of hope in the performance of Alex Bogdanovic, who held a 4-2 first-set lead over the world No1 Lleyton Hewitt but lost 7-5, 6-1, 6-2.  "He played exceptionally well for a time," said Hewitt. "His serve was tough to read and he moves very well. He's got a very nice base and, if he works hard enough, he could make it. But really one match is not enough for me to say how far he might go and it's particularly difficult to assess him on clay. We'll see how he goes on hard courts."  Everyone in the Australian camp bent over backwards to be encouraging towards Bogdanovic and Alan Mackin, who was beaten 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 by Mark Philippoussis. Mackin, already 21, looked fitter and stronger than Bogdanovic but the Scot has no weapons to trouble anybody in the top 100. " I know I have to work on my serve," he said.  Philippoussis, returning to Davis Cup action after a three-year absence, was extremely nervous at the start and Bogdanovic might have caused an upset with his greater range of shots. Mackin moved well and prolonged many rallies but rarely finished them off. Unless he can manufacture a potent first serve his chances of progress appear limited. At least he has a good temperament and is prepared to work hard.  Hard work is clearly Bogdanovic's immediate concern. He faded sharply after his early exertions when, with more experience, he might have gained a 5-2 lead. Hewitt, struggling to adjust to the clay after six weeks on hard courts, over-egged his shots but, once he settled for a more conservative mix, including taking the pace off the ball, Bogdanovic's early brio quickly subsided.  It was obvious, at the beginning of the second set that the 18-year-old British player was struggling to get his breath and he admitted that "fitness is one of my weaknesses. Physically and mentally I need to be tougher." Bogdanovic is being coached by Peter Fleming, the former doubles partner of John McEnroe, although with Fleming reluctant to travel there may soon be a change.  "I've seen a big improvement in Alex over the last few weeks," said the team captain Roger Taylor. "He is starting to play like a left-hander now and use it to his advantage. Some of his best shots are as good as anyone's. Now it's a question of putting it all together. On this occasion the tough top pro [Hewitt] did the job."  The next two years will be vital for Bogdanovic, a junior until this year. He must get the right advice, which ought to mean turning his back on the Lawn Tennis Association. "What nobody knows is what he's got inside him, whether he can fight," said John Lloyd, Britain's former No1. 