 As Andy Roddick crashed out of Wimbledon late on Thursday night, the 25-year-old beaten in four sets by Janko Tipsarevic, a joke spread across the press room at SW19. "Who is the best American man left at Wimbledon?" asked one reporter. "John McEnroe..." he said. Cruel perhaps but the observation carried some weight for, although the US still had one of its 12 original entries left in the men's draw, his chances of winning the tournament were slim to say the least. Bobby Reynolds is ranked 102 in the world and has never gone further than the third round of a grand slam - the 2005 Australian Open. But, with Roddick out, the hopes of a nation rested on the 25-year-old's shoulders as he went into his third-round match last night against the Spanish No31 seed Feliciano López. Two sets down, Reynolds rallied to take the third 6-4 but ultimately lost the match, and the nation that once provided these Championships with Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras suddenly faced week two of Wimbledon without a single male representative. A source of amusement for some, this slump has been met with significant vexation back in the US. After Roddick's exit, and that of the No9 seed James Blake earlier that day, a headline in the Washington Times read "US tennis hits low". "It is not too dramatic to say the state of the men's game in the US has reached one of its lowest points in history," the article said. "For the first time in years, the conversation may center around Americans avoiding embarrassment in future tournaments." The concern is understandable but in truth it has been coming. An American man has not won a slam since 2003, when Roddick took the US Open and Agassi the Australian equivalent. The country has not had a winner at Roland Garros since 1999, when Agassi won, or at Wimbledon since 2000, when Pete Sampras triumphed. The ATP world rankings suggest it is only a matter of time until the US once again has a slam winner - there are nine Americans in the top 100 and two, Roddick and James, in the top 10, but what the last couple of days have shown is that strength in depth does not guarantee class. "Agassi and Sampras were unbelievable players and, yes, it's perhaps true that we don't currently have anyone of that standard in the US right now," Reynolds said. "But I think that is partly because tennis is not the No1 sport over in the States like it is in other countries. Back home, tennis has to compete with basketball, baseball, football for the best athletes and maybe we're missing out on them right now." The women are not doing much better but it is with regard to the men that the US is panicking. Nobody bar Roddick was expected to challenge for the title here but the nature of his capitulation to Tipsarevic showed that the US cannot even count on its best competitors. Roddick, by his own admission, "choked" against a man ranked 34 places below him. Reynolds, however, remains upbeat. "We had a lot of guys in the draw this year, which shows the depth is there, and if as a group we can become more consistent then success will definitely follow," he said. Determined to halt the slump, the US Tennis Association has appointed the former US Davis Cup team captain Patrick McEnroe as its head of player development. While he goes about finding a future star, it may be time for his older brother to come out of retirement and salvage some national pride. · This article was amended on Wednesday July 2 2008. Pete Sampras did not win the French Open in 1999, or indeed in any other year, as we said in the article above. He never reached a final at Roland Garros. Andre Agassi won the title in 1999. This has been corrected. 