 While Tim Henman is among those destined to fret and worry about their points tally in the race to the Masters Cup in Shanghai, Juan Carlos Ferrero is sitting pretty.  The 22-year-old's qualification is virtually assured after yesterday's 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 win over fellow Spaniard Felix Mantilla put him into the semi-finals of the Davidoff Swiss Indoors. He now plays the seventh seed Fernando Gonzalez or the unseeded Frenchman Arnaud Clement.  Ferrero, currently in the fourth of seven qualifying places for Shanghai, is a laconic personality at the best of times and the offhand way in which he discussed the possibility of reaching the year-end jamboree suggested he was not unduly concerned.  "I try to be relaxed and just don't think about it," he said, with a characteristic shrug of the shoulders. "You think too much and you start playing bad. Right now I am playing good so I'm happy."  Happy, but tired, particularly after being given the runaround for more than two hours by Mantilla.  Yet while Ferrero professed not to be bothered by the race to Shanghai he has certainly put on a huge push for points at a time of the season when most Spaniards are shutting up shop for the Christmas break.  Ferrero is far more than a one-dimensional clay-courter and finds the indoor season more of a chore than a pleasure. Yet he has played for the last five weeks in a row without a break. Perhaps he is more concerned with Shanghai than he is letting on.  This was the fifth time in a row that Mantilla has lost to Ferrero and the 28-year-old from Barcelona had his sense of frustration exacerbated by a series of questionable line calls against him.  The last, and most crucial, came when Mantilla was match-point down in the third set tiebreaker. Ferrero hit a backhand volley which hit the net then appeared to slew wide of the line. Mantilla waited for the call, Ferrero shrugged his shoulders sheepishly, doubtless hoping it would not come, and umpire Steve Ullrich called game, set and match.  An incensed Mantilla threw his towel at Ullrich and kicked his racket across the court in disgust, a response which drew a $1000 fine for unsportsmanlike conduct.  A repentent Mantilla said later: "I didn't do the correct thing and I know that. I did it because I hate to lose but I hate it worse when it is 7-6 in the final set. Sometimes when I lose like that I get a little crazy." 