 Roger Federer completed what must have felt like a near-perfect weekend after beating Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 yesterday to reach the quarter-finals of the French Open, the day after watching his great rival Rafael Nadal take nearly five hours to defeat Paul-Henri Mathieu of France in the third round.  The whole of Federer's match lasted only 13 minutes longer than Nadal's first set against the Frenchman, a gruelling encounter that doubtless did wonders for the world No1's wellbeing and general feeling of relaxed contentment.  He is now just three victories away from his first French Open title, and if he is to meet Nadal in the final, he would love him to be ever so slightly weary, if not knackered. Not that he is counting any poulets. "Raf is tough. He gets you in the end, either mentally or physically." No doubt he would have loved to have added: "But, please, let somebody get him before he reaches me."  Next up today for Nadal is Lleyton Hewitt. "I think that's a danger match [for] him," said Federer, though perhaps more in hope than expectation. Berdych beat Federer in the early stages of the Athens Olympics, a result that was extremely disappointing to the Swiss, who had his heart set on a medal. Perhaps he will rectify that in Beijing.  In the meantime the French Open is all, and his next opponent is Croatia's Mario Ancic, who defeated Spain's Tommy Robredo, the No7 seed, over five see-saw sets. "Everybody will expect me to beat Mario so it will be a dangerous match," said Federer.  Ancic, who came back from two sets to one down against Robredo, was cramping by the close and feeling sick. "I have to focus on my own game against Roger and maybe do something to interrupt him," said the Croatian." Taking him off at the knees before the match starts might be a help. Ancic was the last player to beat Federer at Wimbledon, defeating him in the first round in 2002.  However, the world No1would much sooner face the Croatian at this stage than another scrambling, sweat-drenched Spaniard or Argentinian running down every ball. "I felt very calm when I was warming up to play Berdych, so I believe my form is only going to get better," he said. Perhaps only Nadal would not have been chilled by these words.  The young Frenchman Gael Monfils, the first-round conqueror of Andy Murray, reached the last 16, where he will play Novak Djokovic of Serbia & Montenegro today, by defeating the eighth seed James Blake in a long fivesetter that had to be carried over from Saturday, winning 6-2, 6-7, 7-6, 5-7, 6-4.  Blake fluffed an easy volley to lose serve in the penultimate game against Monfils, who then closed out the match to the delight of a Parisian crowd. "The guy is faster than anybody I have played against," said Blake, who was unhappy with a partisan crowd that called out during some rallies or when he was serving. "I felt the umpire didn't do anything about it, so we disagreed a bit," said the last American to fall. 