 Preamble Hello. The spirit of 2005 is back: England are sticking it to a very good side, and Smyth is nursing a minor stormer of a hangover. But enough of that; England did a good job this morning. Kevin Pietersen played a feckless stroke in the first over of the day but Ali Cook, serenity incarnate, made a really fine century - three in seven Tests for him now - and Paul Collingwood chirpily chipped a couple of sixes on his way to 40 not out. It wasn't hugely entertaining, in truth, but it was pleasingly merciless. Just like it was back in the day. Plug department "If you run short of e-mails," begins GU's Carrie Dunn, knowing full well I won't, "feel free to plug my mate Laura's abseil (www.justgiving.com/laura-abseil) tomorrow, as featured in all my OBOs this summer. She's chucking herself off the top of the Guy's Hospital building at 10am, and any support is gratefully appreciated, whether financial or in person (and yes, I'll be there)." She'll be the one crying over Steve Howard's departure from Luton. Plug department part deux If anyone wants a game of cricket on Sunday in the Earley/University area of Reading, against Cricinfo's Andrew Miller and friends, here are the details from Miller himself: "Against the Celeriacs. Currently got about six recruits. Tea and flat track provided. 1pm start. Email sundaycricket@googlemail.com if you're a club trundler who fancies getting tonked around a very picturesque ground." Schadenfreude department The Saffers are getting hammered in Colombo: Sri Lanka are 485 for 2, in reply to South Africa's 169, with Kumar Sangakkara (229*) and Mahela Jayawardene (224*) having put together a Test-record third-wicket partnership, 471 and counting. 80th over: England 272-3 (Cook 115, Collingwood 41) Kaneria begins after lunch. Status quo, as they say in Brick, and now the new ball is due. "What's the most obscure magazine OBO readers subscribe to?" says Andrew Pickford, reader of Enjambment Weekly. "My dad has been a loyal subscriber to Bee Craft, 'The leading UK monthly beekeeping journal', for the past-30 odd years. I'm probably inviting a load of emails from specialist bongo readers, but anyone subscribe to any more obscure publications than that?" 81st over: England 277-3 (Cook 114, Collingwood 45) But they don't take the new ball, and Afridi is worked crisply to the midwicket fence by Collingwood - a trademark bottom-handed jab. Two spinners + hangover = OBO hell. "David Hasselhoff being 'tired and emotional' at an airport was put down to sickness due to antibiotics after injuring himself on a chandelier - while shaving," says Thomas Oxley. "Can any OBOers describe how this might have happened? While shaving?" Did he have an apple and a sock in his mouth at the time? 82nd over: England 279-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 116, Collingwood 45) Imran Farhat has fractured his finger, which is more good news for England. "We used to get "Hot-Dip Galvanising Monthly" in the office, which was excellently obscure until it featured as guest publication on Have I got News for You," says Toby Adam. "After those 15 minutes of fame, it just became sell-out populism all the way so we cancelled our subscription." 83rd over: England 281-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 117, Collingwood 46) The game's just ambling along, and surely it's time for the new ball. If - if - Pakistan blew England away for, say, 400, they might just have a chance of pulling this round. But realistically you'd fancy Harmison to rout them again in the second innings; England should win this by an innings and plenty. 84th over: England 282-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 118, Collingwood 46) Oof! Collingwood pulls Kaneria right into the rump of Younis Khan at short leg, but he's still standing. I'd follow up this nugget with an Elton John joke, but that was soooo 2004. Here's Sam Graham. "Being the complete loser that I am, I follow both cricinfo and your OBO reports simultaneously. Not to blatantly accuse either of you of plagiarism, but I notice that quite often facts and figures that appear on one appear in the other within minutes of being published. Is this teamwork, or just coincidence?" I would have thought they were just facts, although we are currently embroiled in a legal dispute with cricinfo because they keep printing EXACTLY the same cricket score as us. 85th over: England 284-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 119, Collingwood 47) Afridi comes around the wicket to Collingwood, but England are cruising at the moment. Who knew it could be this easy? "Bloody well done to keep going with the hangover - mine has precluded any work at all today," says Chris Yates. "Combination of heat, floor varnish and alcohol - not a clever mixture. Especially in the same glass!" HONK! 86th over: England 286-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 120, Collingwood 48) Admittedly they have loads of injuries, but this is as mundane an attack as Pakistan have had in ages. "I try and keep up to date with the daily newsletter for the Yoghurt-weavers Association of Great Britain: theguardian," honks James Stevenson. 87th over: England 287-3 (lead by shedloads; Cook 121, Collingwood 48) Inzamam finally plucks the new ball and gives it to Sami. At the risk of stating the freakin' obvious, Pakistan DESPERATELY need a wicket or seven with this new ball. They almost got one there: Sami had a really big appeal for LBW turned down after Collingwood was squared up by a very nice leg-cutter, but it was definitely going over. Good umpring from Taufel. "England do not need to go mad," says Richard Jones, who obviously hasn't been watching Scream recently, "but a little more acceleration would not be a bad idea, otherwise we will slip into the 'Apathy of Lords' and all that draws upon us." I take your point, but a) with so much time in the game I don't think it matters and b) I don't think these batsmen - Cook, certainly, and the next man in Bell - can bat any other way. But yes, batting of this nature will arguably cede initiatives in more important match situations. WICKET! England 288-4 (Collingwood c sub (Taufeeq) b Gul 48) The new ball does the trick, thanks to a really tame shot from Paul Collingwood; tamer than a blur b-side circa 1996, some might not say. It was a nothing short ball from Umar Gul, but Collingwood got in an awkward squatting position and choked a swivel-pull straight to square leg. It got onto him too quickly, and he scrunched it really high on the bat straight to Taufeeq Umar. But it was a good innings. 88th over: England 288-4 (lead by shedloads; Cook 122, Bell 0) "Does anyone else think that Kamran Akmal looks like Harris from the Police Academy movies?" asks Steve Rhodes, whose last involvement with Test cricket was to play the rabbit in Craig McDermott's headlights Down Under in 1994-95. 89th over: England 288-4 (lead by shedloads; Cook 122, Bell 0) I'd love to see Ali Cook in the sack. Not like that, but I'm fascinated by his temperament - does he ever get excited? Does his heart ever skip a beat? Does he ever let his hair down? It's otherworldly, and very exciting if you're a shamelessly partisan OBO goon. He plays out a maiden from Sami there. "Talking of extreme hangovers," says Alf Fitzgerald, who with a name like that really should be too old to be waking up in a stranger's garden sans shoes. "I had a mother of one yesterday after waking up in a stranger's garden, with no shoes or phone (yes shoes). The last thing I remember was being in a pub in Putney, next thing I know I have mistaken someone's flower bed for my own bed; both dirty but one more so than the other. Every one can lose a phone...but shoes!! Ended up going to work in flip-flops, so if there any OCO readers out there that live in Mortlake and have seen a pair of brown loafers please do get in touch." OCO? You're still drunk aren't you? 90th over: England 297-4 (lead by shedloads; Cook 122, Bell 8) Pakistan, after much teapotting and Kevin-The-Teenager flouncing, get the new ball changed (the old new one was knacked), and the new new ball grips and snakes past the outside edge as Bell prods tentatively off the back foot. Bell's response is of the highest class, a delicious drive down the ground to the fence. That moves him four closer to the 8,000 Test runs that are his destiny. "Am I the only one driven mad by Strauss's cliché-packed comments?" says Steve Hudson. "I wonder whether he talks to his wife like that? I keep imagining him, after getting fruity with Mrs S, drivelling on about Executing Skills Well, and Concentrating on Good Areas." There's an unhappy bedroom theme emerging here, and now I'm struggling to shake the image of Thin Bob Key wearing nothing but Superman Y-fronts and a sultry grin. 91st over: England 301-4 (lead by shedloads; Cook 126, Bell 8) Cook makes it back to back boundaries, cutting a long hop from Sami behind square. "Just been reading G2 and the piece about staff bringing their children in," says John Starbuck. "All the OBO writers try to project an image of louche Londoners, but are any of you parents?" None that I know oHONK! Erm, no. WICKET! England 304-5 (Cook LBW b Gul 126) Umar Gul strikes again! It was a tight decision - and it took Steve Bucknor ages, even by his standards - but Hawk-Eye had it trimming the outside of off stump as Cook pushed around a delivery that snapped back into him and hit him on the back leg. It was, as the brilliant Mike Atherton points out, one of those LBW decisions where you can't complain either way. That's a big wicket for Pakistan and, with only one more needed to expose England's long tail, they might just be back in this match. Old Trafford 2000, anyone? 92nd over: England 304-5 (lead by shedloads; Bell 10, Jones 0) "So you may recall I perpetrated an appalling piece of smugness last night regarding rain and footwear," says Louise Wright, erroneously presuming I remember anything about last night. "When I finally ventured outside, it turned out that the only way to the station was through puddles that were calf deep. My boots were ankle boots. That will teach me and my light-hearted attitude to matters diluvian. I tried emptying them out on the train. I tried stuffing them full of old clothes and bunging them in the airing cupboard when I got home. They are still i) squelching, and ii) trashed, and the black dye still hasn't come off my feet despite the liberal application of a scrubbing brush. I apologise for my attitude, and I should think your flip-flops probably dried out in minutes." And it didn't even rain in EC1. 93rd over: England 314-5 (Bell 19, Jones 1) Ian Bell, who has started quite beautifully, times Sami to the midwicket fence; Mark Waugh in his dreamy, long-nosed pomp could not have played that shot more elegantly. And then he whips another through the same area; another outstanding shot. "Alf Fitzgerald's wearing flip-flops because he lost his shoes in a drunken haze, like a real man," says John Sangar. "What's your excuse Smyth, you girl?" Talk to the flip-flops, Sangar, because the face ain't listening. 94th over: England 315-5 (Bell 19, Jones 2) Geraint Jones takes on the short ball from Gul, hooking airily for a single. He really needs runs here, if only to silence the doofii who think he should be dropped. Gul, meanwhile, is bowling pretty well - he was always going to be Pakistan's premier seam threat on this pitch, and he beats Bell there with a nice leg-cutter. Drinks. "I wouldn't like to think how wide Monty's eyes go when contorted in the throes of sexual ecstasy," says Paul Graham. It's not compulsory, Paul. WICKET! England 321-6 (Jones LBW b Sami 8) A seriously eventful over ends with Jones being trapped LBW. He hooked Sami for six, was rapped painfully on the bottom hand - and then caught in front by a shortish off-cutter that kept a little bit low and would just have hit the top of off stump. Like Cook, that decision could've gone either way. 95th over: England 321-6 (Bell 19, Mahmood 0) Somewhere around the country, Chris Read is demonstrating the snigger that earned him the nickname 'Mutley'. "Are Rob Key and Clare Balding related?" says Adam Munro, internally noting that he has never seen them in the same room. 96th over: England 326-6 (Bell 20, Mahmood 4) The problem with having Bell at No6 and a long tail is that he is very one-paced; he bats in a bubble. He could end up 34 not out here. Or not if Saj Mahmood keeps flailing to the third-man fence, as he did here. "My first ever email to OBO and I am able to smugly inform you that Old Trafford 2000 was a bore draw with the Windies where Brian Lara wore special sunglasses," says John Stevens. "Perhaps you meant Old Trafford 2001?" Errrr, no, I meant the one where England blitzed their opposition in the first innings, raced ahead and then had a tail-end collapse, and were then tonked all over Old Trafford even though everyone thought they'd skittle the opposition on a lightning-fast pitch before rain ensured a draw in a match which, it seemed, had only one winner. In 2000. 97th over: England 331-6 (Bell 25, Mahmood 4) Bell times a lovely forcing shot through the covers off the back foot; in the Old Trafford pressbox, Booth's knees begin to tremble. "Will he be fit for the Ashes?" wonders Ramiz Raja as the camera cuts to... Gary Neville? Ah, he's sat with Michael Vaughan. 98th over: England 332-6 (Bell 26, Mahmood 4) Mike Atherton spends that over interviewing Shoaib Akhtar, who gives another masterclass in talking about himself. Imagine how tricky he'd have been on this pitch; jeez. "I find myself one of the doofii (eh?) who think Jones should be dropped," says Paul Keeling. "He's not the best English wicketkeeper and he's not scoring enough runs. Would the Aussies, in our position, keep him in the side? Ashes nostalgia shouldn't shield him from criticism." Name me a better alternative. Chris Read has played 33 innings for England and scored no half-centuries. Matt Prior couldn't keep a promise. Next! 99th over: England 337-6 (Bell 27, Mahmood 8) Sami overpitches and Mahmood carts him through mid-on for four. Pakistan are missing a trick here; they're letting Bell accumulate singles as if England were nine down and Ed Giddins was at the other end. But with four more wickets to take, they could just keep on bowling, like Jeffrey Lebowski. "I'm trying to win a bet against my colleague for who can get mentioned first on obo," says Pat Collins. "Please help me win. You have the power. Inclusion of the term Paul Tatum smells would be even more fantastic." You sad, sad little man. 100th over: England 340-6 (Bell 29, Mahmood 8) Sorry, I missed that over while searching for incriminating evidence against Chris Read. "" says Peter Rowe, Director of Island's Insurance. 101st over: England 343-6 (Bell 30, Mahmood 10) Pakistan have lost what momentum they built up with those new-ball wickets, and Sajid Mahmood looks just fine at the moment. "Read may not have any half centuries to his name, but he was only a fraction of the player he is now when he made those appearances," says Andrew Hewitt and others. Completely erroneous, IMHO: we said EXACTLY the same when he came back in 2003-04 - different batsman, loads of runs for Notts, yada yada yada - and he couldn't do it. I don't give a stuff how many runs he gets at county level - Andy Moles, remember him? - it's not going to happen at Test level. I'd have him in the one-day team, for reasons previously discussed, but he will never, ever score an Ashes-winning 85 at Trent Bridge. Chris Read at No7 at Perth? Good one. 102nd over: England 344-6 (Bell 31, Mahmood 10) Kaneria is back, but I missed his over because I'm sitting at Paul Doyle's desk and some estate agent just rang for him and WOULD NOT GET OFF THE PHONE. Oh the wackyness. "Shamelessly hoicking the discussion back to the morning session I've just read (does this make me a JCL?), are there any words that no respectable gay man would ever utter?" says Matthew Tom. "Toolbox?" Buggerlugs? 103rd over: England 351-6 (Bell 36, Mahmood 12) Bell sweet-spots Razzaq to long-on for four, another really pleasant stroke. Then Mahmood turns water into wine - well, one run to third man into two - with some admirably aggressive running. "Who else for England wicketkeeper?" says David Mullett. "James Foster, of course. He's a better keeper and a better batsman now than when he played for England, and best of all he's an Essex player." Not quite good enough at either discipline for me. A No7 simply has to have the capacity to get Test hundreds; I also think some of Jones's recent low scores are the reddest of herrings - he's extremely unselfish, and he's not out of form as such. He just keeps getting out, annoyingly. Steven Davies might be the future, but that's, erm, the future. For now, I can't see beyond Jones. 104th over: England 354-6 (Bell 39, Mahmood 12) Steve Bucknor pooh-poohs a big shout for LBW by Kaneria against Mahmood. Going down. "In fact in 2003 Read had averaged 30 the previous season," says Edward Bannister. "Very very different from the 50 he has averaged since. Next." Yeah, because facing Tyron Henderson on a Trent Bridge featherbed is a really good indicator of whether you'll score runs against Brett Lee at the MCG. I'll bet each and every one of you as many Chewits as you like that Chris Read will never, ever score a Test fifty against Australia, and that's why he shouldn't be in the team at No7. IF we find a bowling allrounder who plays No7, a Pollock, then sure, bring him in, I'll feed him fizzy cola bottles. Until then, forget it.* *GU does not endorse, etc. WICKET! England 357-7 (Mahmood c and b Razzaq 12) Mahmood, trying to work to leg, lobs an easy return catch to Abdul Razzaq - and that's tea. In isolation it was a decent session for Pakistan, but England still lead by 238 and are in control. Thanks for your emails; Ben Hendy has sent in something to do during tea. Toodlepip. 