 Fred Perry's grandson yesterday urged the public to get behind Andy Murray as a "worthy successor" to the greatest ever British tennis star. John Perry, 24, said the family of Fred, who in 1936 was the last British player to win the Wimbledon men's singles title, felt honoured as Murray wore the Perry logo on centre court. "Even though he lost in the semi on Friday, Murray has absolutely got what it takes to become the kind of outstanding hero of the game that Fred was," he told the Observer yesterday. "I hope people realise that. He is such a brilliant character on the court and the uproar of the crowd supporting him really needs to be seen to be understood. "I didn't think he'd have much trouble with Roddick but, to be fair, Roddick played a blinder, even though he was playing 15,000 people out there along with Murray. I think it's time for people to look at Murray far more sympathetically and take him to heart for what he is: one of the world's greats. "He's only 22; there is plenty of time for him to mellow a little to become the kind of charismatic sporting figure beyond tennis that Fred was in the later stages of his career, but I think he's doing really well at keeping his private life private and managing the huge pressures on him." Named John Frederick Perry after his grandfather, Frederick John, and raised in his grandfather's village of Rottingdean near Brighton, John's own tennis credentials are strengthened by his mother Penny's marriage in 2004 to Drew Evert, the brother of tennis star Chris. Fred died in 1995, when John was 10. Now an engineering consultant, he remembers his grandfather coming to his school and signing autographs for each of the 170 pupils. Murray has spoken of his admiration for Perry, describing him as "one of my sporting heroes".  Perry launched his famous polo shirt at Wimbledon in 1952 and it was an immediate success. The laurel logo was based on the old Wimbledon symbol and, unlike other logos, it was stitched into the shirt. It became fashionable in the 1970s, but fell out of favour with tennis players until Murray picked it as his label of choice, to the delight of the Perry family.  "He is brilliant and I think Fred would have been absolutely delighted as well," said John. "My grandfather started people wearing that line by chucking the gear at all the players he knew. But it had fallen away and now to see it back, and worn on a British player, is such an honour. I'm delighted." 