 Rafael Nadal, the Spaniard who has bullied so many opponents to defeat, was spent. He gulped for air. 'How many times will we see Rafael Nadal, during the course of his career, sucking it up as he is there?' Peter Fleming asked, exultantly, on his TV commentary. On the other side of the net, Andy Murray, who had just killed off a 22-shot rally with a big forehand volley that took him to the only match point he needed, stared palely back at Nadal, unmoved. This, above all the other moments to savour during Murray's run to the US Open final last week, was perhaps the most significant. It was the moment that answered emphatically the burning question: is he man enough to make the most of his rare talent. The most immediate beneficiaries of the emergence of Murray the tough guy may well be Britain's Davis Cup team, who next weekend play off against Austria on Wimbledon's No 1 court for a place in the 2009 world group, the competition's 16-team premier league. As the team's only world-class player, Murray takes a burden into the tie that until a week ago it seemed unlikely he would be strong enough to bear. Even so, John Lloyd, Britain's captain, is taking no chances about his fitness. 'If Andy called me and asked if it was OK if he did not turn up until the day before the tie against Austria I'd say, "No problem, do what you need to do,"' says Lloyd. 'He's played enough tennis and it will take him about 30 minutes to get used to grass again. I have no worries about that.' Lloyd, who was in New York to watch the whole of Murray's run to his first grand-slam final, points out that it was not just Nadal who wilted under the severity of the young Scot's game. Jürgen Melzer, the Austrian whom Murray will play again next weekend at Wimbledon, was worn down physically and mentally as he surrendered a two-set lead in their third-round match. Lloyd says: 'Andy is a very difficult player to beat unless you can hit through him - and you have to be bloody good to do that, as Roger Federer did in the US final. Other than that, the only thing that has stopped him in the past couple of years has been his physical condition as he has grown into his body. 'Maybe he wasn't strong enough to keep up his game plan for four hours, but now he can do that. 'It's possible Nadal was tired from the effort he'd put in throughout the year, but I've never seen him react as he did in that last game after that one big point when he was gasping for air. He looked absolutely knackered.' How great a burden Murray will have to bear against Austria will depend largely on the first-day performance of Britain's second singles player, Alex Bogdanovic, who, at 172 in the world rankings, is 168 places below Murray. Ideally Britain would end day one of the three-day tie next Friday with a 2-0 lead, Bogdanovic having won his singles, in which case Lloyd would be able to rest Murray from Saturday's doubles. If the score is 1-1 or 0-2, Murray will almost certainly have to try to salvage the tie by partnering older brother Jamie against an Austrian pair who will be led by Julian Knowle, one of the world's leading doubles players. It would be nice to be reasonably confident that Bogdanovic can produce, especially as he is just about level-pegging with Austria's second player, Alexander Peya, in the world rankings. But he has done little to justify confidence with a solitary victory in six Davis Cup singles - and that was after the 2003 tie against Australia had been lost. While Lloyd frets about Bogdanovic's form, the LTA are nervous about the weather. Holding a Davis Cup tie out of doors in Britain in September is always going to be risky - and doing so in a year such as this one could be seen as gambling on a reckless scale. 