 Lleyton Hewitt's feud with the Association of Tennis Professionals has intensified after he threw his weight behind a proposed new players' union. Hewitt, the world No1, fell out with the ATP last summer when it tried to fine him for not completing a television interview. "I know in my dealings with the ATP there is a lot of room for improvement," said Hewitt. "It's a huge issue and I think all the players have to come together to talk about it. The biggest thing is getting the players' issues across better. The ATP hasn't done enough as the players' voice."  The International Men's Tennis Association is spearheaded by Wayne Ferreira, one of the tour's senior players, who describes the body, due to be launched next week in Miami, as a "trade association for tennis players".  The IMTA's principal aim will be to represent the players' financial interests within the game, an area in which the South African believes they are being let down by the ATP.  When asked if he would join Ferreira's fledgling union, Hewitt was emphatic. "For sure," he said.  The ATP is administered by its chief executive officer Mark Miles, a board of directors and a players' council. The ATP pays salaries to the three player representatives on the board and remunerates 10 other players on the council, something which Ferreira believes compromises their position.  "It's not like we're trying to start a whole new tour," said Ferreira. "We don't want to fire all the people who work for the ATP; we just want someone with a business mentality to make sure we're getting what we deserve. It's hard to do that with the structure because the guys who are board [and council] members are paid by the ATP."  Todd Woodbridge, the vice-chairman of the players' council, suggested the IMTA would wither on the vine. "They don't have enough support," the Australian said. "What they are proposing is already in place. We already have representatives. If you don't like them, you can vote in new ones.  "We are the ones who are paying our board members. The fact that we own 50% of the tour gives us more say than if we weren't part-owners and then be at the whim of the people who own it."  Hewitt dismissed Woodbridge's suggestion that the IMTA would simply fizzle out. "Somehow I doubt that," he said darkly. "I really doubt it."  There has been a series of meetings at the Pacific Life Open here. But, while Ferreira claims players are overwhelmingly backing the IMTA, few are willing to go public.  "I seem to be the only one whose name comes out," he said. "A lot of them are very scared, are worried about what is going to happen to them. That's one of the reasons why we have to do this, because you know if you are terrified of the people representing you, that's not a good sign."  Ferreira has support from an unlikely source in Tim Henman, who has served on the council. He said of the IMTA: "It's something I'll certainly look at. Whatever the subject, if the players are all as one, then I think that's a good thing."  Meanwhile, Hewitt secured a place in the quarter-finals here with a scrappy 6-7, 6-4, 6-3 win over Guillermo Coria. The victory means Hewitt can still retain his world No1 ranking, providing he makes the semi-finals. 