 Milestones are passing in a blur as Andy Murray keeps up his extraordinary progress towards the top of the men's game. Now the 18-year-old Scot, still eligible to play as a junior, has reached his first final on the main men's tour - and even though the top prize at the Thailand Open may be beyond him, given that he plays world number one Roger Federer in today's title match, the future looks dazzlingly bright. One of the first people to congratulate him after his semi-final win over Thailand's tough and talented Paradorn Srichaphan was his mother and mentor, Judy, who watched the match on television in Scotland. She fired off a text message: 'Oh my God, amazing. I can't believe how good you've become so quickly. What a win. One more to go.' Playing in front of his home crowd in Bangkok's Impact Arena, Srichaphan stole the initiative by winning a tense first-set tiebreaker. By the end, though, the Thai was thoroughly demoralised, showing mental and physical fatigue as Murray's superior tennis saw him through 6-7 (3-7) 7-5 6-2. And to think Murray was handed his wild-card place in the draw only last week after Tim Henman pulled out with back trouble. A public who have grown sceptical of Britain's chances of ever producing another Wimbledon champion after Henman's spirited but unavailing efforts to win tennis's biggest prize should be in no doubt that Murray has the game and temperament to do so. Not since the great Fred Perry, who dominated tennis in the 1930s when he won three Wimbledons, has Britain produced a player as good as Murray at such a young age (although Buster Mottram was also 18 when he made it into the world's top 100 in 1973). Of our recent high-ranking players, Henman did not really emerge as a top-10 prospect until his twenties, while Greg Rusedski was a product of the Canadian system. It is the maturity of Murray's game, underpinned by a solid technique whose virtue was instilled in him by his tennis-playing mother and was honed at the tennis academy in Barcelona where he has played and studied for the past three years, that sets him apart. Against Srichaphan, he began poorly but was savvy and confident enough to turn things around. As the match entered its important and decisive phases, it was Murray, with his ability to vary the pace at which he plays, who determined the tempo of the rallies rather than his vastly more experienced opponent. 'It's incredible how quickly he's learnt to adapt against the top players who have been on the tour for a number of years,' Judy Murray said. 'In the past three or four months things have gone so quickly.' At the start of the year, Murray was ranked outside the world's top 400 and did not play his first match on the ATP tour until April this year, when he lost in the first round in Barcelona. He registered his first tour win at the Queen's Club in London on 6 June, beating Spain's Santiago Ventura. Two days later he gave the first real indication that this may be an exceptional year when he upset the seeded American Taylor Dent, an immensely powerful player, in straight sets. By the start of Wimbledon, Murray's ranking was up to 312, and after reaching the third round at the All England Club it had risen to 213. A first title on the second-tier Challenger tour in Aptos, California, in July saw him break into the top 200 and he cracked the top 100 during the current tournament, with a place in the 70s expected to be his reward when the new rankings are announced tomorrow. Where he plays next may depend on how badly he hurt his right hand yesterday when he slipped and fell, but he is likely to take on a more ambitious schedule than the sequence of Challenger events that were lined up for him. Murray's victory over Srichaphan was his third against a seeded player in Bangkok after he also beat Robin Soderling and Robbie Ginepri, the American who reached the semi-finals of the US Open a month ago. 'Those were the best two sets he's played since I started working with him in July,' coach Mark Petchey said after Murray rallied from a set down against Ginepri. 'I didn't start well, I was returning badly,' Murray said after disposing of Srichaphan, 'but I began serve-volleying and that threw him off his game.' On the prospect of playing Federer, Murray said: 'I think it's great to be playing someone who is one of the greatest players ever. It's a dream come true.' In fact, Murray played against Federer for the first time just eight days ago in the Davis Cup tie in Geneva. That was in a doubles, which Federer and his Swiss partner won in four sets. 'Andy Murray and I are going to have many more battles in years to come and he is going to be a very good player,' Federer said. The world number one could hardly have guessed that the first of these battles would come so soon. 