 There are those who prefer to play their tennis down the middle, and those who like to go for the lines. Lleyton Hewitt is nothing if not straightforward, particularly when he is eyeing a place in the third round of the US Open as he was yesterday. The Australian racked up a 7-6, 6-1, 6-2 win over Morocco's Hicham Arazi, a man who is as flashy and wild in his playing style as Hewitt is conservative.  In the early stages of the match it looked like going for broke was going to triumph over moderation and Hewitt was forced to save two set points in the opener before doing what he normally does, which is to hang on like a limpet until his opponent loses interest.  Boredom has always been Arazi's greatest enemy and the reason why, at the age of 30, he has so little to show for all his talent. His shot-making can be little short of sublime sometimes and he finds angles that seem to defy geometry. The problem with his rapacious need to find something extraordinary every time he puts strings to ball is that it is awfully hard to keep it up. He has certainly never quite worked out how to do it.  Hewitt does not get bored. He gets angry, he gets faster and he gets so twitchily anxious that he threatens to explode, but neither his brain nor his body ever seems to tire.  His style may not thrill as Arazi's does, and he may not splurge his talent around the court like a lottery winner throwing cash around, but his miserliness in giving points away makes him infuriating to play and nigh on impossible to beat.  No one has managed it recently - the last man to win a match against the Australian was Andre Agassi in the Cincinnati final at the beginning of August - and Hewitt since then has won consecutive titles in Washington and Long Island leading into this event.  Having taken the first set yesterday with the help of a mildly fortunate forehand in the tie-break, which seemed to flick an off switch in Arazi's mind, Hewitt was unstoppable thereafter. He raced through the second while Arazi increasingly retreated into a world of his own.  By the third the match had petered out altogether, though Hewitt was still in battle mode, plucking at his strings and glaring down the court as if daring Arazi to perk up again. There was little chance of that and perhaps Moroccan tennis fans should not get their hopes up before their nation's Davis Cup tie against Australia in Perth at the end of this month.  If Hewitt plays this well in a sleepy lunchtime match in front of a near-empty Arthur Ashe stadium, then goodness knows what he is going to do to Arazi in front of thousands of cheering Aussies.  Hewitt puts some of his success so far this summer down to skipping the Olympics, chiefly because he could not bear the thought of criss-crossing the Atlantic and exposing himself to the health risks of long-haul flying.  It has proved to be a wise decision, for however much those who competed in Athens enjoyed themselves, many are now paying the price. In a summer in which the Olympics were sandwiched between the US hard-court season and the US Open, something had to give somewhere. Of the six singles medallists, only Justine Henin-Hardenne and Amélie Mauresmo remain left in the US Open draw.  Yesterday Mauresmo, who won silver to Henin-Hardenne's gold, became the first woman through to the fourth round with a 6-2, 6-0 win over Venezuela's María Vento-Kabchi. "You have so many big events in the summer and it's tough to come back after Athens and be ready for this one," the French player said.  Mauresmo showed no sign of the jitters she suffered in her previous match, when she dropped a set to Julia Vakulenko. She is currently ranked No2 in the world and could make No1 if Henin slips up at Flushing Meadows, where she won the title last year.  The Frenchwoman openly admits that dealing with pressure is not her strong suit - as anyone who has seen her lose in front of her home crowd at Roland Garros can testify - so perhaps it is best she does not think too much about it. As Hewitt proved, sometimes it pays to keep things simple.  Mauresmo's compatriot Mary Pierce beat Virginia Ruano Pascual 6-0, 6-1 and appears in fine form. She is likely to need it against her next opponent, the Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova. 