 Sometimes it feels like Indian Wells can’t catch a break. Just when they’ve got the blacks attending again, they alienate the birds. Or the “lady players” – if you want to be all politically correct about it. “If I were a lady player,” explained the tournament CEO, Ray Moore, having conceded that some of them are “attractive prospects”, “I’d go down every night on my knees and thank God that Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal were born.” Mmm. I get the feeling that if Ray were a lady player, he’d go down every night on his knees and thank tournament CEOs the best way he knew how. Still, it’s like the old saying goes: if my auntie had balls, she’d be my uncle. “In my next life when I come back,” Ray continued, “I want to be someone in the WTA.” And let’s hope he gets allocated that, as opposed to Yazidi girl or something. In the meantime, unfortunately, Ray has resigned, perhaps hoping to head off an existential threat to this most quaint of olde worlde re-enactment tournaments. You always hear a lot about the unique desert air at Indian Wells, which I have long assumed is piped in direct from the Gerald Ford era. It even caused world No1 and famous good egg Novak Djokovic to go a bit squiffy. Having made some remarks about equal prize money, with which you may agree or disagree, he went somewhere I hope we can all concur is best signposted TURN BACK NOW, DUDE. “I have tremendous respect for what women in global sport are doing and achieving,” he began ominously. “It’s knowing what they have to go through with their bodies and their bodies are much different to men’s bodies. They have to go through a lot of different things that we don’t have to go through. You know, the hormones and different stuff. We don’t need to go into details,” he ruled with sledgehammer delicacy. “Ladies know what I’m talking about.” Resisting the temptation to drop in an “amirite?” here, he ploughed manfully on: “But it’s really great admiration and respect for them to be able to fight on such a high level. Many of them, they have to sacrifice for certain periods of time, you know, the family time or decisions they make with their own bodies in order to play tennis and play professional sport. So I appreciate that.” Thanking you. Go on. “I have had a woman that was my coach and that was a huge part of my tennis career. I’m surrounded with women. I’m very happy obviously to be married to one” – there it is! – “and to have a child.” Oh Nole, Nole, Nole … NO. Djokovic is a nice guy and he clearly meant well with this stuff. Occasionally, however, we all need some navigation tips. Consequently, may I proffer The Nice Guy’s Very Brief Guide to Discussing Women’s Sports and the Issues Therein. I am happy for this to be made available to everyone, from world No1s and tournament CEOs to morbidly obese guys on the internet who opine – without irony – that commenting on a fifth set is beyond women’s frame of reference. Hormones Without wishing to boggle Djokovic’s mind too much, scientists are working on the theory that there are other hormones than progesterone. Take testosterone – or, to use its street name: human genius hormone. Research into this mysterious substance – perhaps the dark matter of all sporting discussions in time and space – is at its very earliest stages. However, there are indications that it may be the cause of widespread phenomena such as “handbags” in football and the unfortunate overemotionalism that afflicts many managers far more frequently than once a month. Consequently, we have to regard the hormonal story of sport as DEVELOPING and give it a wide berth till we know more. Phraseology Guys, women totally get what a nuisance it is to have to pick your words carefully when you want make a point. On the plus side, once you’ve done so, no one is likely to formally respond by declaring you too ugly to contest an assertion/voice an opinion/be raped. So it’s not all bleak. By way of another pointer: when discussing women’s sports and their debts or otherwise to you, I would avoid using expressions such as “drop to their knees”. As indicated earlier, it just sounds to us like you’re saying “blow me”. Given there’s at least a 50% chance you’re not, maybe go with something else. Don’t mention the wife When is the correct rhetorical moment to play your queen? The answer, I’m afraid, is pretty much never. I know it’s a pisser having a debate-winning supercar in the garage and not giving her a run-out. But it’s wise to leave your mum and daughter out of it, too, unless you model yourself on that seminal third-wave feminist, Chris Finch from The Office. “How can I hate women?” Finchy once inquired. “My mum’s one.” Alas, this approach never goes well, even in the hands of a nice chap like Bradley Wiggins. “Let’s be honest,” invited Bradley after a stage of the 2013 Giro d’Italia, “I descended like a bit of a girl after the crash. Not to disrespect girls,” he continued. “I have one at home.” As I say: probably best to leave her there. 