 Timmy, Timmy, Timmy. Every year the nation goes weak at its collective knees for him. Well for about ten days anyway - because that's as long as he ever lasts. And then, when he's whipped middle England up into a frenzy of Henmania, it's a double-fault here, a muppet shot there, and futile swan dives a-go-go. And he's gone. Salt water wells in his eye. The union-jack painted faces of teenage girls and their mums run into rivers of technicolour despair. But you know what? We don't care. Henman is the very embodiment of the all-pervading gallant loser ethos we seem culturally programmed to embrace in this country. But why do we do it to ourselves? It's not going to happen so forget about it. Are we simply being facetious here? Do we just delight in playing devil's advocate for the sake of it? No, actually, we really mean it. Tim: do one. We're backing the Wild Man Goran to take him in the semis and then blast past Agassi in the final. And when he's done all that it's only a matter of a quick call through to immigration and our Goran can have Greg's British passport. "Is going to be more pressure, you know, all England. Today I was watching on TV. They were asking people if they should have Henman holiday on Sunday if he wins. So is going to be huge, huge expectation on his back, you know."  No, that wasn't the presenter of Channel 4's Banzai turning his hand to tennis punditry, but our very own Goran. It's his year. The world No125 has emerged from the wilderness and delighted the crowds with his semi-nudity and his Captain Caveman-like bellicose cries of belligerence, not to mention some breath-taking tennis  It's the best ever performance by a wild card at Wimbledon, and having gate-crashed the All England party, he's made himself more than welcome. He's got that unpredictability about him; that slightly unhinged look in his eye. You just don't know what he's going to do next and that is his appeal. "I think people should learn that with me you never know, you know," he said yesterday. "I'm not surprised because I'm the guy who can wake up one day and beat anybody, or can stop or can lose to some strange people, which I did, you know, past years." Tiger Tim, by contrast, is entirely predictable. You know he's going to get all our hopes up, only to dash them. There's only so much pressure Tim's tiny shoulders can bear. That's why we're backing the Big G to hit the spot. (And quietly hope, with all our lion heart, that we're entirely wrong.) 