 The state of Tim Henman's shoulder injury, and just how many matches he can be expected to play - or wants to play - continued to be the main topic of speculation last night as Britain and Thailand finished all square after the opening singles of their Davis Cup world group qualifying match at the Birmingham national indoor arena.  So far so good, with Henman defeating the Thai No2 Danai Udomchoke 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 in the first match. But Henman, despite feeling "pretty good", admitted he still felt cautious about his shoulder, notably when serving. "Mentally it's difficult to have the belief and the trust in my shoulder. It's still like I'm waiting for something to happen."  Roger Taylor, the Davis Cup captain whose best-laid, if predictable, plans for keeping Britain in the elite world group were thrown into disarray on Monday when Greg Rusedski pulled out with a foot injury, appears to believe it is unlikely Henman will be able to play three matches in three days.  Yet Taylor expects him to line up alongside Miles Maclagan for today's doubles, and it seems inconceivable, assuming his shoulder does not become re-inflamed, that Henman will not want to play against the Thai No1 Paradorn Srichaphan tomorrow, whatever the result of the doubles. One thing is certain: it will be Henman's decision, not Taylor's.  Britain's vulnerability was emphasised when Srichaphan defeated Martin Lee 6-0, 7-6, 6-2. The first set, when Lee was strangled by nerves in this his first live Davis Cup singles, lasted barely 15 minutes. He steadied himself to lead 4-2 in the second set but was ultimately no match for Srichaphan's rich talent.  Henman himself was understandably tentative to start with, and perhaps a little nervous too. Udomchoke, ranked outside the world's top 200, began with a freedom that reflected the lack of pressure on him, and had this been a three-set match he might just have sprung a surprise. But the Davis Cup, like the four grand slams, holds to a five-set format, despite the best efforts of television producers to shorten the game wherever and whenever possible.  Henman scrambled his opening service game despite only once getting the speed gun into triple figures and missing three routine forehand volleys. Feelings of unease multiplied when he dropped his second service game to love, with two double faults, including a netted second serve of 51mph.  If happiness could have been measured, Henman would not have troubled the scorers. Not only was he clearly not happy with his own game, he was not best pleased with some of the line-calls, and late in the opening set he swiped a ball into the crowd as his frustrations briefly boiled over.  Taylor, who invariably gives the impression of a man waiting for something extremely heavy to fall on his head from a clear blue sky, knew this was not the time to proffer much in way of advice. For the most part he gazed into some middle distance, making sure not to let his eyes fall on Henman's right shoulder.  However, Udomchoke's lack of experience at this level was immediately apparent at the start of the second set when he dropped his serve, double-faulting for the first time, and then started to get stranded at the net. By now Henman was beginning to open up on his ground strokes, and when he levelled the match Udomchoke suddenly began to appear weary. His coach urged him to try to take the match into a fifth set, no doubt hoping Henman might fade, but by now the British No1's resolve was unbending.  Any confidence in Lee defeating Udomchoke in tomorrow's final reverse singles, which could be the deciding match, is quite another matter. And this is why Henman may push himself all the way in the hope of wrapping up the tie before that match by winning the doubles and by beating Srichaphan, against whom he has won all his previous three matches. But it is a tall order.  · Sébastien Grosjean earned the reigning champions France a 2-0 lead in their Davis Cup semi-final against the United States in Paris, beating James Blake 6-4, 6-1, 6-7, 7-5. Earlier, Arnaud Clément beat Andy Roddick 4-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-1. Neither American had previously lost in the Davis Cup.  In the other semi-final Russia also went 2-0 up as Marat Safin captured the opening point against Argentina, beating Juan Ignacio Chela 6-7, 7-5, 7-5, 6-1, and Yevgeny Kafelnikov beat Gaston Gaudio 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 2-6, 8-6. 