 John Lloyd, Britain's Davis Cup captain, said yesterday he believes Andy Murray is a whisker away from becoming world No1 and winning his first grand slam. Murray, who is ranked No4 in the world behind Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic, won his fifth title of the year in St Petersburg on Sunday to become the first British man since Mark Cox in 1975 to win two titles in a row. It followed Murray's victory the preceding week at the Madrid Masters. The Scot's run of victories means he comes into this week's Paris Masters on an 11-match winning streak. "Andy is already a great player and now he has a chance to be the one - the No1," said Lloyd, whose Davis Cup team will face Ukraine in Glasgow on March 6-8 next year in the Euro-Africa Zone Group One.  "He is millimetres away from winning a grand slam. It would not surprise me if he wins one next year. I still think he's two years away from playing his best tennis - which is a scary thought," he added. "I think he's very much a learner. He's very astute in that he picks up things all the time and he knows what he needs to get that extra step. He's been gradually chipping away at the top three guys - and in a lot of cases beating the top three guys - but he's taking it all on board. "He is realistic enough to know that there is still a way to go but I think he knows what he has to do now. Even though he's worked damned hard and he's come on an amazing amount, he knows that the work has taken him to a certain level and now he's got to push it up even higher for next year.  "Winning back to back is what the Nadals and the Federers do. You can look at it and think 'Jeez, what a long year' and may be they're not 100% and maybe they're not mentally as fresh as they would like, but they still grind out some titles. I wouldn't say Andy ground out St Petersburg because he won it comfortably, but the point was that he didn't take his foot off after winning Madrid and just went on again to show that there's plenty more left in there.  "He has had a quite remarkable year when you look at it. He's won the titles and made the final of the US Open, quarters at Wimbledon - it's remarkable and it's really exciting to watch it and be around it when he does this stuff." 