 With the first-round five-set match between Tim Henman and Carlos Moyá still vividly etched in the mind, yesterday's Centre Court crowd, having sat a tad impatiently through victories by Andy Roddick and Justine Henin, settled in for what they hoped would be another match to treasure. Six minutes and 14 points later the rain sent Henman and Feliciano López scuttling to the locker rooms. They will return in the first match on Centre Court today. One day Henman may sit in his garden and allow the rain to fall on him without moving an inch. At Wimbledon the first spit and spot alerts his every sense into making the dash for his bags. No need these days to linger for a bow and a scrape in the direction of the royal box - that was done away with four years ago, unless the Queen happens to be in situ, which is only once in a British grand slam victory. The rain has been both a comforter and a curse to him. There have been times when he has been able to regroup, return and turn around the seemingly un-turnroundable. He remains phlegmatic about the whole process but will forever know that, had the British summer weather not been so confoundedly capricious in 2001, he might, indeed should, have reached the final here, giving him the chance to win the title he has always believed was his destiny. Had that 2001 semi-final against Croatia's Goran Ivanisevic finished on the Friday it began, Henman might at least have reached the final. The match had swung completely his way but on the Saturday, when only 51 minutes were possible because of the rain, he crucially lost the fourth set on a tie-break, and by the time it resumed on the Sunday he was 3-2 down in the fifth and he cracked under the enormous strain. "I felt sorry for Tim because of all the pressure he has been put through, but this was my destiny. God wants me to win. He sent the rain on Friday," said Ivanisevic, who won 7-5, 6-7, 0-6, 7-6, 6-3. Now there are no thoughts of such heady heights. The high-octane anxiety of the crowd during all four of Henman's semi-finals has been replaced with the gentle radiance of a much-loved player eking out his endgame. The victory over Moyá was a fabulous match of full-on nostalgia. And how dearly Wimbledon would like to see it repeated today. Yesterday's brief exchanges were too short and fragmented to detect any great pattern. Henman opened with a service game to love, including a forehand volley winner. López, an altogether heavier man, immediately began to hit his left-handed serve with considerably more power, reaching 134mph, although Henman was immediately presented with a break point when the Spaniard half-volleyed wide. The 25-year-old López, seven years Henman's junior, held and it was 15-15 in the third game when the black clouds, so much more visible without the roof, began to deposit their contents. It was 4.43pm and time for tea. Tennis was off. The All England Club is much more keen these days to keep its public informed, and the news was as gloomy as the skies. And so what had barely begun will start again today. Henman has not won successive ATP Tour or grand slam matches since October, and not managed to get beyond the second round of Wimbledon since 2004, the sort of statistics that might dampen even the spirits of Centre Court. Centre Court, though, is a world to itself, oblivious to international tennis reality. 