 Andy Murray stumbled over the winning line against Tim Henman in an exhilarating all-British battle in round two of the Rogers Cup Masters Series. The 19-year-old clinched his second career victory over Henman by a 6-2, 7-6 (7-3) margin in Toronto.  With new coach Brad Gilbert at courtside, Murray moved into a commanding position at 6-2 5-2 before Henman's thrilling fightback made the second set terrific entertainment.  The pair traded breaks in the fourth and fifth games of the first set, but then Murray reeled off six successive games against 31-year-old Henman.  From 3-2, he won six consecutive games to lead by a set and 3-0, and although Murray's game was not quite immaculate, he produced some stunning passing shots.  The match was proving quite a contrast to their three-set marathon in Basle last October, which Murray also won, but then came a stirring Henman revival.  He clawed back a game to trail 3-1 in the second set, and then had two break points at 4-2 down on the Murray serve.  The young Scot averted the danger and a stunning double-handed backhand down the line ensured he stretched his lead.  Henman needed to do something drastic, and after holding serve he utilised his most attacking tennis to break Murray to love.  The more experienced man's precise volleying was threatening to turn the match around, and soon Henman was back at 5-5.  A fall in the 11th game briefly raised concern that Murray had twisted an ankle, but he was soon on his feet, facing a revitalised competitor on the other side of the net, one who broke him to lead 6-5.  The set should have been Henman's, but at advantage he put an easy volley into the net.  Murray took advantage to force a tie-break on his fifth game point, and then the Scot seized charge once more.  He soon had a double break and, although Henman saved one match point, a terrific Murray backhand sealed victory.  New Great Britain Davis Cup captain John Lloyd intends to approach former British number one Henman - Murray commands that tag now - with a view to a comeback in the team tennis event.  However after this result Murray looks sure to keep his position as Britain's leading singles player for the foreseeable future and will face Spain's Carlos Moya next in Toronto.  Already his quarter of the draw is opening up, with third seed David Nalbandian having lost in the first round and Radek Stepanek having withdrawn prior to the tournament. 