 Tim Henman recovered from a terrible start to win his first-round match in straight sets with Galo Blanco in the French Open. Henman, the sixth seed, trailed 4-1 in the first set against the Spanish clay-court specialist before coming through to take the match 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 (8-6). The British No 1 was broken in the first game of the match, a number of unforced errors giving Blanco the opportunity to immediately gain the upper hand with a backhand return winner. Henman then sportingly corrected a line judge's call on the opening point of the second game, ruling a Blanco forehand in even though it cost him the point. He still had a chance to break straight back however but Blanco came up with a superb winner down the line to get back to deuce before eventually serving out for a 2-0 lead.  The match changed, however, when Henman received a huge slice of luck from a fortunate net cord which saved him from going 5-1 down. He took full advantage to break serve and reduce the arrears to 4-2 before his first love service game made it 4-3.  There was no stopping the 27-year-old now and he broke Blanco again in the eighth and 10th games to complete a remarkable turnaround. The first five games of the second set went with serve - Henman saving a break point to keep in front at 3-2 - before Blanco called for treatment on an apparent foot injury.  But just as the trainer was strapping the Spaniard's right foot, the first rain of the day fell, forcing the players off court. Play was eventually able to resume at 2pm, a delay of one hour and forty minutes that no doubt gave Blanco time to receive more treatment on his injured foot.  But it was Henman who appeared revitalised by the rest, winning the first four points on the resumption to break Blanco's serve, and then saving two break points to forge a 5-2 lead.  And although Blanco held serve to reduce the deficit, Henman produced a breath-taking forehand winner cross court on his way to serving out for the second set 6-3 and a two-set lead. Henman had the only break points of the third set in the ninth game, but Blanco recovered from 0-40 down and a tie-break was required. The Spaniard had the early advantage at 2-0 but as five points in a row went against the serve, Henman fought back to lead 6-5.  Blanco saved that match point but gifted Henman another on his own serve with a backhand sliced wide, slamming his racket to the ground in frustration.  Henman gratefully accepted the opportunity, putting away an overhead to seal a fine victory 6-4 6-3 7-6 (8/6), perfectly timed just minutes before the rain fell again and the covers were dragged back into place on court. 