 With British interest in the men's singles at this year's Wimbledon now a fast fading memory it was time to clutch at the most tenuous of nationalist straws yesterday, but even that proved beyond hope. James Blake is America's No2 player but he has an English mother and it appeared to be the latter bloodline which sealed his fate as he tumbled out of the tournament at the hands of the determined Spaniard Juan Carlos Ferrero. Ferrero beat Blake, the Championships' ninth seed, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 7-6, thus suggesting that even being half-English at Wimbledon these days is enough to ensure that you do not make it to the first weekend. In reality, Blake's failure to beat Ferrero probably had more to do with his deficiencies on grass and his recent poor form than the fact that his grandfather was the village bobby in Banbury. Blake has never got past the third round at SW19 and was unlikely to do so in a season which has seen his tennis and his confidence take an ever more downward turn. Blake's 2007 may not be nearly as bad as the lows of 2004, when he broke his neck in a freakish collision with a net post during practice, contracted a neurological virus and had to cope with the death of his father, but it has yet to match the comeback he managed to conjure from those grim circumstances. In 2005 he reached the quarter-finals of the US Open and last year he matched that result and went on not just to qualify for the year-end Masters Cup in Shanghai in November but to reach the final there before losing to Roger Federer. He began this year by winning a tournament in Sydney but seems to have lost more and more self-belief with every passing defeat. The fear of falling - at least figuratively - seems to be causing him to do just that. Ferrero won the 2003 French Open and was runner-up at the US Open the same year, results which took him to No1 in the world, but he knows what it feels like to plummet from the heights and yesterday seemed to relish his role as underdog. "He didn't have the same sort of pressure this time as he did back when he was in the top 10 in the world, No1 in the world," said Blake, sounding suspiciously like he envied Ferrero. "He's playing a guy that's ranked higher than him and he's on what most people consider his least favorite surface, so he was able to swing freely and he did that." Fernando González, one of the other seeds to fall yesterday, should have done a bit more unfettered hitting. The Chilean fifth seed has a game of explosive power but his American coach, Larry Stefanki, persuaded him to tame it in favour of a more circumspect approach. However, he got the balance between whimper and bang horribly wrong yesterday and lost 6-3, 3-6, 3-6, 6-4, 8-6 to Janko Tipsarevic in the third round. Ivan Ljubicic provided some good cheer for Great Britain, albeit by losing 4-6, 7-5, 6-2, 6-3 in the third round to Paul-Henri Mathieu. Ljubicic is likely to feature when Croatia take on the Murray brothers and Tim Henman for promotion to the Davis Cup World Group and the sight of the World No12 being beaten on grass at Wimbledon, where the tie will be held, should have provided some comfort for the team - even if it took a Frenchman to do it. Blake's defeat leaves Andy Roddick as the only American man left in the singles. Roddick survived a noticeable wobble to defeat Spain's Fernando Verdasco 6-3, 6-4, 7-6, coming from 2-5 down and saving two set-points at 3-5 in the third set. Verdasco, who had twice beaten Roddick before, proved such an obdurate opponent that the American felt moved to shout an exhortation to his coach, Jimmy Connors, afterwards, hailing his own bravery. Roddick aside, American men's tennis is not perceived over in the US as being in good health but those who complain about having a two-time Wimbledon runner-up still in contention for the title should take a glance at the fortunes of their British cousins. 