 Tim Henman could soon be giving the Wimbledon seeding committee a dilemma. He has just suffered the biggest fall of his career on the ATP's entry system - the world rankings - by dropping seven places down to No20. The Englishman is in his lowest position for more than six years.  Henman was last outside the top 20 at the end of 1996, the year in which he saved a match point at Wimbledon to beat Yevgeny Kafelnikov and invited predictions that Fred Perry's successor had arrived.  This year Henman could be the focus in a less encouraging way. If his ranking is sufficiently low, Wimbledon's seeding committee could decide he should be elevated, as befits someone with an excellent grass-court record, above his world station to preserve Britain's love affair with the tournament.  "We would have to cross that road when we get to it," said an All England Club spokesman yesterday. Such tampering in the past has upset clay-court specialists, leading to a few to boycott Wimbledon, notably the two Spaniards Alex Corretja and Albert Costa, plus Gustavo Kuerten when the Brazilian was world No1.  Henman would help Wimbledon's organisers if he shows significant improvement over the next fortnight here. He has won once in four attempts since shoulder surgery. Here at the hard-court Nasdaq-100 event he will play on a favourable surface for the last time before a seven-week clay-court season which least suits his net game.  Meanwhile Morocco's Younes El Aynaoui is playing the best tennis of his life and is only five points behind Henman while two rising players, James Blake and Tommy Robredo, are within leaping distance. By the end of the French Open on June 8, Henman could be nearer to 30th than 20th, which would revive the loaded debate about whether Wimbledon seedings should conform to the ATP entry system like the three other grand slams do.  Happily the 28-year-old Henman's fitness, unlike Pat Rafter's and Goran Ivanisevic's after similar surgery, does not seem too bad. He is apparently troubled more by other parts of his body that have not been exercised fully for four months. As he put it: "My bum feels worse than my shoulder."  Henman believes he belongs in the top 10. He may nevertheless have to get used to a long spell outside it while he regenerates his bold but old-fashioned game, his serve and his confidence in particular.  "In terms of my game there isn't much wrong," he said. "I can certainly get better, but the more I put myself in these situations, the more matches I play, the better I will become."  Exactly what these situations are, is not clear. Last year in Miami, Henman slung his heavy kitbag over a shoulder, swept round a corner, jerked to avoid an oncomer and ricked his neck so badly that he was forced to pull out. Perhaps what he is due is a little luck. 