 Andy Murray appears to have Andy Roddick well figured out and it could be a long time before the big-serving American gets on top of the feisty young Scot. In his third victory in four attempts over the United States No1, Murray downed the top seed Roddick 7-6, 6-4 to progress to the final of the SAP Open here. In another sterling display of inventive tennis, the Scottish defending champion played a great mix of shots off the ground and stood tall during the key moments of the match. Roddick's fire-breathing serve was effective at times but never burned Murray, who was to meet the giant Croatian Ivo Karlovic in the final overnight. "The best part of my game is my return," Murray said. "I get a lot of returns back and I've done that the three times that I've beaten him. I served well on big points when I've needed to. And also I pass well and he's started to come in a lot too - when it gets close he comes in more." The 19-year-old prevailed despite the former world No1's attempts to cut him down with a super-aggressive style of play. But, as Murray noted, the American could not convert enough approaches to the net, as Murray passed him time and again from way off the court. "He's great at playing defence from tough positions and even when he's not totally there he makes you play something," Roddick said of Murray. "There are lot of guys who are fast, but once they are on the run they can't hit the ball. He moves well even when he's on the run. He's able to create something to put it in an uncomfortable position for you." Even though the match took place on a very quick court that should have favoured Roddick, the man from Nebraska was often caught off balance when he did not boom in a first serve, winning only 24% of points on his second serve. "The main focus was getting returns in play," Murray said. "With someone as aggressive as Roddick, he can put a lot of pressure on your own serve if you're not making him work ." Murray was more consistent from the back, more than matched Roddick from his backhand side and held strong in the fierce forehand rallies. Also, he produced big serves when he needed them, to out-ace Roddick 14-9. The contest was a rematch of their semi-final here last year, when Murray stunned the American en route to his first ATP title. However, Roddick was mired in a slump then and Murray was just an 18-year-old getting his feet wet. This time, both men came into the match with better records and in good form. Roddick reached the semi-final of the Australian Open and last week led the US to a Davis Cup group win over the Czech Republic. For his part, Murray came into the event with a career high No13 ranking, reaching the final of Doha and nearly upending the world No2 Rafael Nadal at Melbourne Park last month. After breaking Roddick to 5-3 in the first set with a gorgeous forehand pass downthe line, Murray failed to serve it out when Roddick broke back to 5-4 with a nifty backhand drop shot. But the Scot kept clawing in the tie-break, fighting off two set points with a forehand pass and a 132mph service winner to level it at 6-6. Murray needed three set points of his own to close out the set, and finally won it when he whipped a backhand passing shot that left Roddick shaking his head. In the second set, Murray broke Roddick to lead 3-2 with another forehand pass down the line. Roddick held a break point on Murray's serve at 3-4, but the Scot again responded, pulling off a beautiful backhand drop volley and then booming two aces. Murray closed out the contest to love, completing it with a fore-hand pass that bounced off the top of the net cord and flew past frustrated Roddick. That win earned Murray his first match against the 6ft 10in Karlovic, who won his semi against Germany's Benjamin Becker 7-6, 7-5. Murray's elder brother Jamie was also due on court overnight in the doubles final against Rainer Schuttler and Chris Haggard. The Scot and his American partner Eric Butorac beat Scott Lipksy and David Martin 6-4, 7-6 in the semis. 