 Tim Henman's Grand Slam dream came to a yet another spluttering stop today as he crashed out of the French Open in the second round. Henman, a shock semi-finalist at Roland Garros last year, was beaten 7-5, 6-7, 6-3, 6-4 by Peru's Luis Horna in Paris. The 30-year-old squandered a 3-1 lead in the opening set and quickly found himself in trouble at the start of the second, losing his serve in the opening game after a long rally was ended by a winner from Horna. But the British No1 hit straight back to level the scores and broke again to surge into a 4-2 lead. He looked to have the set in his pocket when he served for it at 5-3, but Horna was proving a tenacious opponent and broke Henman's serve once more to get back on level terms. The tie-break was a one-sided affair however, Henman racing into a 5-1 lead before taking it 7-2 to level the match. Horna regained control of match in the third set by breaking Henman to take a 3-0 lead. The seventh seed was becoming visibly frustrated and had to save three break points in the sixth game to avoid going 5-1 behind. That only delayed the inevitable however and Horna eventually served out to take the set 6-3 with another forehand winner. Henman had twice come from two sets to love down during his superb run 12 months ago but there was no chance of such a comeback this time as Horna again gained the upper hand in the fourth set. Another break of serve took Horna to the verge of victory and Henman's woeful day was summed up when he fired a forehand long on match point. Henman revealed he had been hindered by stiffness in his back but conceded he had been beaten by the better player. "It's a disappointing loss today," he said. "I suffered a little bit of general stiffness and since I've had a bit of a back issue that sometimes happens. "But I think he played really great tennis. When he can play that aggressively with seemingly a big margin of error that's going to be very effective on clay. "I felt there were areas where I could have done a little bit better and perhaps could have served a bit more consistently. But I think when you are playing the kind of high-risk tennis I need to play it's hard to do that for three hours and eliminate mistakes from your game. I certainly give him a lot of credit for the way he played." Henman also took the positives from his early exit, with more time to practice on grass before Wimbledon. "Winning is the best thing for any player but being eliminated certainly will give me a chance to prepare properly for the grass season," he added. "There is no reason why I can't have a much better run at Queen's and moving on to Wimbledon." 