 Guillermo Coria's rise has been rapid and controversial. The 22-year-old Argentinian had already been singled out as a potential champion when in December 2001 he was suspended for seven months after testing positive for nandrolone at a tournament in Barcelona earlier that year.  The banned substance was apparently contained in a food supplement that was not labelled, and an anti-doping tribunal decided Coria was unaware of its contamination. But the stigma has remained, despite Coria's best efforts to draw a line under the incident.  He is named after his fellow countryman Guillermo Vilas, the 1977 French Open champion and three times runner-up, and is nicknamed El Mago , the magician. He possesses no outstanding weapon but is immensely quick, forcing his opponents into mistakes or manoeuvring them out of position, when his double-fisted backhand down the line can be particularly potent.  In 2003 he rushed into the world's top 10, winning five titles, four of them on clay. At the French Open he defeated Andre Agassi in the quarter-finals before losing somewhat tamely to the Dutchman Martin Verkerk, when he was fortunate not to be disqualified after spinning his racket after a loose ball and hitting a 16-year-old ball girl.  Had it caught her flush in the face the authorities would have had no option but to show him the red card but leniency prevailed and he escaped with a warning - unlike Henman, who was disqualified from Wimbledon in 1995 when he hit a ball away in anger during a doubles match and caught a ball girl.  This year Coria has established himself as the world's leading clay-court player, although it would be wrong to call him a specialist. He has lost only one match in the current clay-court season, against Roger Federer in the Hamburg final.  The Monte Carlo Open is frequently a good guide to the French Open and, when he won the title this year, Coria said that he "hoped to follow in the footsteps of Juan Carlos Ferrero, who won here last year and then at Roland Garros".  Coria won the junior title in Paris five years ago and the boys' doubles title at Wimbledon with David Nalbandian, who today plays his fellow Argentinian Gaston Gaudio in the other semi-final.  "It will be a good match to watch against Tim because there will be no long rallies. I'm feeling very confident," Coria said. "It is no surprise Henman is there because he has been playing very well. He can play on any sort of court and on any surface. But when I have reached a semi-final I don't mind who my opponent is.  "My experience of last year is going to be very important. I have been focused all week. I know what my objective is. I know what I want to achieve. I always try to analyse my opponent, see what are their shortcomings and their strong points and how I can use that to my advantage.  "I am going to practise all I need to create difficulties for Henman."  Six ways Henman can win  1 Serve: The game's biggest servers struggle to make an impact on clay. But Henman seems to have found a way to utilise one of his most important assets. He lost only six points in the final six service games of his quarter-final win over Juan Ignacio Chela.    2 Surprise: Clay-court kings expect to face fellow baseliners on the other side of the net. But rather than trying to adapt, Henman is sticking resolutely with his serve-and-volley game, and that has unsettled some of his previous opponents.    3 Belief: Henman has clearly convinced himself there is a way to win on clay, which is half the battle on this surface. With nothing to lose, Henman is thriving on his freedom at Roland Garros.    4 Strength: Coria might be able to run all day but Henman has extinguished all doubts about his physical strength. Arriving at Paris feeling the effects of a virus, he has come through two five-set matches unscathed.    5 Attitude:  Coria can crack when things are not going well. Renowned for moaning at umpires, he was also lucky not to be disqualified in last year's semi-final against Martin Verkerk - a big server who beat him -after hurling his racket at a ball girl.   6 History: Coria has won two of their three meetings but Henman has beaten him on clay. Henman won 6-7 7-5 6-1 in the Tennis Masters at Monte Carlo two years ago. 