 The Williams sisters have always divided opinion both within and outside the tennis world, and continue to do so. To a large extent it no longer matters. They have never been orthodox in their approach to the sport, and probably never will be, but between them they have now won 16 singles slam titles, and changed the face of the women's game. Their place within tennis is absolutely secure, and the chances are they have been right all along. On Sunday evening the inevitable happened when Serena defeated Jelena Jankovic 6-4, 7-5. Well, at least the scoreline makes it look that way, though in fact it was one of the best women's slam finals here, with the 23-year-old Serb, playing in her first major final, stretching Williams all the way. She had saved 10 set-points against her older sister in the quarter-finals, and needed to salvage another four against Jankovic. "Watching her reminded me of a cross between a pit bull, a young Mike Tyson and an alligator," said her father Richard. It was not an altogether flattering analogy, but you took his point about her fighting spirit. "I think this title meant more to her than any she has won."  Serena was not in total agreement with her Dad, though there was no doubting her absolute delight. She threw her racket high into the night skies after two hours and four minutes of pulsating tennis, and jumped for joy, not once but many times. "I'm sorry, I was so excited," she apologised to Jankovic, who is one of the most endearing players on the circuit, and always ready to smile even in the context of this match when she was a point away from taking the opening set, and sensed that Williams was tiring in the second. So the Tiffany's silver cup, a cheque for $1.5m, and the return of the No1 spot, five years after she last held it, belonged to Serena. Small wonder her delight was unfettered. This, her third US Open title, and ninth slam in total, placed her level with Monica Seles, and Mo Connolly, though only halfway towards Chris Evert. It was Evert who took Serena to task a couple of years ago after her ranking dipped outside the top 100, a slump brought about by both injury and what was perceived to be an over-commitment to off-court interests. "I wonder," wrote Evert, "whether 20 years from now you might reflect on your career and regret not putting 100 per cent of yourself into tennis." She added: "I don't see how acting and designing clothes [Serena has her own company Aneres] can compare with the pride of being the best tennis player in the world." These words were written more out of frustration than anything else, and echoed the thoughts of many others involved in the game. Then at the beginning of last year Serena won the Australian Open, ranked No81, while Venus, also critised for her off-court activities, won the Wimbledon title that she retained this July. The two collected the Olympic doubles gold in Beijing, and then came Serena's victory here. It was watched by Evert, who before the game began admitted: "It's opened my eyes not to be judgmental and to each his own. Whatever makes you happy. By having other interests, maybe you won't get burned out so quickly." This has been a year when Belgium's Justine Henin, the former No1 and multiple slam winner, decided to quit (though she is apparently practising again), while Maria Sharapova, another former No1, has struggled with a long-term shoulder problem that forced her to miss both this tournament. The power game, which the Williams took to a new level, is taking a heavy toll, forcing the modern players to become ever more fitter, which clearly benefits the game. Jankovic took on Henin's former trainer, Pat Etcheberry, and has clearly benefited, while Serena has been working harder than at any other time in the past five years, and no longer short-changing herself. This win immediately led some to suggest that Serena will now go on to overtake Billie Jean King's total of 12 slam victories, and then push on towards Evert and Martina Navratilova. She is just short of her 27th birthday, so has the time. "I've been working so hard all year," she said. "It's just paying off. No one really knows the work that an athlete puts in. I felt like 'Gosh, I've been working the hardest, I should win.' It doesn't stop here. Like I said before, I feel like I have a new career, like I feel so young and I feel so energised to play every week and to play every tournament. I feel like there's just so much that I can do in my career yet, and I've never felt like I've played my best tennis." The cynics will wonder, but for the moment there is no doubting that at their best the Williams sisters remain the world's two outstanding players, while Jankovic showed clear signs that winning a slam is not beyond her capabilities. 