 Maria Sharapova's dreams of becoming the first wild card to reach the women's quarter-finals at Wimbledon evaporated into the grey skies when she was beaten 6-1, 2-6, 7-5 by her Russian compatriot Svetlana Kuznetsova.  The 16-year-old's defeat ended a dismal day for the Russian women, who had a record five representatives in the fourth round of a grand slam but ended up with only Kuznetsova in the last eight. The one could easily have been Sharapova insteadbecause she was within a point of a 5-3 lead in the final set. Kuznetsova plays Justine Henin-Hardenne today. The French Open champion handled the more powerful Mary Pierce strongly, winning 6-3, 6-3 by breaking Pierce's serve once in the first set and twice in the second. Her game was distinguished by some robust passes and counter-hits, and the diminutive Belgian did not appear too inconvenienced by her damaged left hand. "I did a lot of bulking and I can feel the difference," Henin-Hardenne said when asked about their difference in stature. "It helps me a lot in situations on court and it may be the key to the results, too." Venus Williams, allegedly in decline, believes she can win Wimbledon again. The fourth-seeded former champion avenged herself with a crushing 6-1, 6-3 victory over Vera Zvonareva, who beat her in Paris. She then raised a few eyebrows by saying: "I was a little bit off my game." Nothing was further from the truth. Williams broke serve twice early, captured the first five games, wrapped up the first set in 25 minutes and roared on to eight of the first nine games. She did allow the 18-year-old Russian a mini-revival of three successive games but she soon snuffed that out and in the two most important areas of the game, service and service return, she was overwhelming. She timed the ball well enough to win nearly two-thirds of the return-of-serve points and her own delivery picked up in the second set to a formidable 119mph. Williams's performance highlighted a comment from Lindsay Davenport, her next opponent, who reckoned her the best grass-court player of all. Davenport herself was impressive in beating Shinobu Asagoe 6-4, 6-1. Afterwards she said she was "not too happy" with Billie Jean King for dropping her from the United States' Fed Cup team. "My mom is having surgery on the Monday [before Saturday's match] and I obviously wanted to be home for that," said Davenport. "But she [King] told me, 'Don't bother coming.' I've supported the team better than anyone in the last decade, so I'm a little disappointed I wasn't given some opportunity to play." Davenport's omission has echoes of King's bust-up with Jennifer Capriati last year. The two quarrelled over arrival times and the presence of Capriati's father and was followed by the United States losing the cup. "Billie Jean's rules are too stringent," Capriati said yesterday. Kim Clijsters gave Belgium their other expected quarter-finalist by avenging herself on her doubles partner Ai Sugiyama for a defeat in the US in March, once again beginning with a charge, taking five of the first six games and eventually winning 6-3, 6-2. She has lost only 12 games in four matches at Wimbledon. 