  Coach 1990–1998 Andy had a little racket when he was about two. He and Jamie used to whack a sponge around in the living room and hall! In the back yard he used a ball, and he got pretty good pretty quickly. I was coaching at the local club, not 200 yards from where we lived. So they grew up around the tennis club area. I played all sorts of ball games with them because I knew if you learned co-ordination skills, whatever you eventually take up, you perform better. He was three when he went on court. He had mum, dad, brother, grandma and grandpa throwing balls at him but by five he was fed up and wanted proper tennis. So I invited some kids and coaches for a get-together and suddenly we had a cluster of tournaments. When Andy was 11, Leon Smith started coaching him and I mentored Leon. If he didn't know something I would suggest it, and if I didn't know I would find out. When he finished with Leon I travelled with Andy as I did when he finished with Mark [Petchey] and in the last five or six weeks with Brad Gilbert, when it wasn't working out. But I think we have been lucky: most of what we tried to do has worked out well. His life off court Shy when he was younger, his social life revolved around tennis and football. He played in the school football teams and two local teams. He played a lot of football until he was 14 and led a pretty normal life, apart from coming out of school for extra tennis. Judy also used to take Andy and his brother Jamie on outings to watch tennis tournaments with Andre Agassi becoming his hero.  March 1999–August 2004 I could tell straight away that Andy was a hugely talented kid and as I started to work with him more, I realised how competitive he was: he loved winning and hated losing, which is a pretty good attribute. Andy was also a very intelligent boy and interested in the game. He would watch other games when he wasn't playing: he wanted to study potential opponents. His movement around the court was exceptional, although he's taken it to such a high level now it's almost a joke. There was a lot of pressure on Andy even at that age, particularly after he won the under-12 Orange Bowl tournament in Florida. I tried to buffer him from the attention he got from that victory and keep his head down and make sure he kept practising: he always enjoyed playing in matches but I wanted to ensure he enjoyed training too. It was one of my first coaching jobs and I didn't have many former pupils to compare Andy to until we started going to tournaments like the Orange Bowl and I said to myself, "He's the best player here!" The trend continued and by the time he hit 16 he was able to win on the Futures Tour. That showed he could win in the professional game. Off court He attracted attention from Rangers and played school football matches until he concentrated on tennis. As he got older, he developed an interest in boxing.  Mid 2003-July 2005 He has improved a lot since he left the Sánchez-Casal academy in Barcelona. But I think he is playing the way we taught him. I could see immediately how good he was. My system was based on basic drills, how to move with solidity and efficiency in three areas – defensive, offensive and finishing – improving his footwork and building mental strength for the demands of competition. When Mark Petchey came here to watch him he said, "I never saw anyone practise like you." He said to me, "Andy is going to be with you for 10 years because I never saw anyone practise like that." But I was with him 1½ or two years. I taught him the pattern of the game, how to play matches. Now every player he plays, he plays with this pattern. He has not always played well at Wimbledon but that's because he's been very tired or nervous. He has very good shots and now knows the way to play. During his time here he matured as a person while learning to become a tennis player. He gained confidence, he improved his concentration, and he grew independent. Off court Studied at the Schiller international school. Made good friends including Daniel Vallverdu, a Spanish-born Venezuelan, and Carlos Mier, a Peruvian player who often travels with him and joins him at training.  July 2005–April 2006 When I was called in to coach Andy it was already obvious he was going to be a great player, but his confidence was a bit low and it was my job to keep him motivated and make sure he hit his initial target of getting into the top 100. It wasn't just issues on the court we needed to sort out, we also needed to get him an agent and look at the financial side of things: Andy was keen to make enough money so he didn't have to ask his parents any more. That meant we were playing lots of tournaments and although there were a few fitness issues I wanted to get his ranking position where it should have been. There are very few Rafa Nadals out there who are fully developed at 19, so I figured his strength would come on as he got older. Once you get into the top 50 then you can start developing the weapons that will get you into the top 10 and higher. It's hard to believe when you see how comfortable Andy is on court now, but when he was younger he did need reassuring that he belonged among the top players. Off court He enjoyed playing Tiger Woods golf on the PlayStation as well as a spot of darts and pool. Started dating Kim Sears, the daughter of the LTA coach, Nigel, after they met at the 2005 US Open.  July 2006–November 2007 I set out to introduce him to people who could help build his strength and develop his fitness. He came out a lot stronger for the 2007 season and served harder. Andy had the hunger. He also had the temper. McEnroe got furious at everything. Andy mainly got angry at Andy for not doing it perfect. Sometimes he took it out on me. That's OK. I knew it was mainly frustration with himself. I could have done more, but that's the thing in coaching – it's one-on-one, and if they're not feeling it, you don't want to stand in their way. I would like to think that the results were OK. [Murray climbed from world No35 to No12.] Murray's life Spent quite a lot of spare time watching and analysing matches, something at which he is particularly good. Also spent hours a day on the PlayStation and revealed his distaste for alcohol.  November 2007–present My first impressions at the first training camp we did were that he's such a hard worker. He did 3½ weeks of hard physical work. There was no moaning, no excuses, no injuries. He's a smart guy. He knows he's still not the finished article. You look to improve every area – technical, physical, tennis. He's very focused and he's taken care of game-plans well. He's worked on his serve. It's a massive help if you can get cheap points on serve. If you go further in the tournament it helps if you can keep your matches short. My respect for him has grown over the last year. I think Andy has found his game style. Off court Hangs out with Team Murray on the circuit. Has his own Twitter feed, updating fans with his latest news, including his golfing exploits. Also bought a border terrier, Maggie, who he admits "pees behind the sofa". 