The Compton and Neville brothers were remarkably accomplished footballers and cricketers but CB Fry still takes some beating for all-out sporting mastery By Richard Foster for The Agony and the Ecstasy of the Guardian Sport Network 
 The Premier League table is taking shape, an international break has come and gone, and the Champions League groups are up and running, but we still don’t know whether Yorkshire, Somerset or Middlesex will win the County Championship. It seems impossible now but there was a time when multi-talented individuals had to decide whether they would continue playing cricket until the very end of the season or switch to playing football. The only time the two sports coincide these days is when cricketers indulge in some football practice to warm up before matches. The very idea of a professional footballer playing first class cricket nowadays would not be considered a possibility but there was a time when it was quite common, even up to international level. In fact, a single family produced two such individuals. The Compton brothers achieved the unrivalled feat of winning both the county cricket championship and football league title together. Denis played cricket for Middlesex and football for Arsenal alongside his elder brother Leslie, and also represented England at football in a dozen wartime friendlies. He also ushered in a new era for sportsmen. His dashing looks attracted the media spotlight in a way we find all too familiar today but it was an aspect of stardom that none of his predecessors had experienced. He was nicknamed “the Brylcreem Boy” after becoming one of the first English sportsmen to attract commercial sponsorship as well as being among the first to employ an “image rights” agent, the intriguingly named Bagenal Harvey. Harvey managed to secure Compton a nine-year sponsorship deal with Brylcreem that was reportedly worth £1,000 a year, with the agent ensuring he took a 10% cut. Compton’s career was interrupted by the second world war but he still managed to score more than 5,000 Test runs and join a select group of players who have notched over a hundred centuries. In the summer of 1947, Compton scored 3,816 runs for club and country, including an impressive tally of 18 centuries in 50 innings. In his determination to ensure that Middlesex won the county championship that year he missed the start of the football season, which showed where his priorities lay. His football career was a little less prolific, although he did score on his full league debut for Arsenal against Derby in 1936. He managed to accumulate 120 appearances for the club during the war years, scoring 74 goals, even though he was mainly stationed in India. Just as the Football League resumed full operations for the 1946-47 season, he was denied by a knee injury that restricted his appearances to a minimum. His crowning glory was the FA Cup final victory over Liverpool in 1950, to which he could add the league title he won in 1948 alongside his brother, who became England’s oldest outfield debutant – a record he still holds – when he played in a 4-2 win over Wales in 1950 at the age of 38. The modern equivalent of such talented brothers would be the Nevilles. Even though Gary once shared a double-century stand with Matthew Hayden in a club cricket game, it was younger brother Phil who excelled, captaining the England Under-15s at both cricket and football. He was considered the equal of a contemporary in the Lancashire Under-19s, who went on to become an English cricketing hero. As Steve Kirby, the former Somerset bowler, said: “He was brilliant. I know it’s a big statement, but he was better than Andrew Flintoff at the time.” Neville was forced to give up cricket once Manchester United offered him a professional contract. So, while the Comptons remain at the top of this elite group of polymaths, there were a couple of athletes who spent a glorious decade together in a county side and would certainly rival Denis’ cricketing pedigree, if not quite come up to scratch on the football side. From the mid-1970s Ian Botham and Viv Richards dominated the world stage while team-mates at Somerset. They broke numerous records for England and the West Indies, respectively, although their performances as captains varied enormously. Richards never lost a Test series as skipper, a feat even Clive Lloyd could not achieve, but Botham’s reign at the helm was little short of disastrous, with England winning none of the dozen Test matches when he took in charge in 1980. He infamously resigned mid-series just before the 1981 Headingley Test against Australia when Mike Brearley was forced to take over as captain, freeing Botham to perform his heroics. Botham’s football prowess took him to the exotic surroundings of Scunthorpe’s Old Show Ground, where he made 11 league appearances, including a memorable home debut which ended in a humbling 7-2 defeat to Larry Lloyd’s Wigan. Richards did not fare much better when he turned out for Antigua in a couple of World Cup qualifying matches in 1974. Losing 11-0 to Trinidad & Tobago is probably not on his list of sporting highlights – nor would the fact that he was once bowled by Steve Ogrizovic, the former Coventry City goalkeeper, when he was playing for Shropshire in 1983. Richards was undoubtedly Oggy’s most notable scalp but he also could count both Alvin Kallicharan and Chris Broad (Stuart’s dad), among his victims. When he was not dismissing leading international batsmen he managed to fit in 500 games for Coventry over 16 years and even scored a goal against Sheffield Wednesday in a 2-2 draw in October 1986 when a typically booming punt was taken by the wind and sailed over opposite number Martin Hodge’s head. This was a memorable season for Ogrizovic as, alongside the only goal he ever scored, he was in goal for Coventry as they won the FA Cup for the only time in their history. Ogrizovic was one of the last in a healthy line of goalkeepers who turned their hand to cricket from Victorian times all the way to the 1980s. The immense William Foulke started the trend. He played for Derbyshire as well as Chelsea and Sheffield United, where between 1898 and 1902 he won the First Division once and the FA Cup twice. Andy Goram continued the line of cricketing goalkeepers until Rangers insisted that he stop playing cricket – but not before he had had played against Australia in 1989. He remains the only person to have represented Scotland at football and cricket. Jim Cumbes was probably the one player who balanced both sports in parallel with the most success, playing over 160 first class matches for the likes of Lancashire and Surrey as a medium fast bowler and also making nearly 400 league appearances, mainly for Tranmere Rovers, Aston Villa and West Brom. When his playing career was over, Cumbes became chief executive of Lancashire to cement his position as a rounded cricketer/footballer. Jim Standen took 313 first class wickets for Worcestershire and also kept goal for the great West Ham side of the 1960s alongside that celebrated English triumvirate of Geoff Hurst, Bobby Moore and Martin Peters. In fact, Hurst, who will be forever remembered for his hat-trick in the World Cup final, also represented Essex CCC in 1962. Hurst’s only appearance was not especially memorable, as he did not manage to trouble the scorers with a duck followed by an unbeaten nought. What is much more memorable is the fact that he first played sport with Moore not on a football pitch but in an Essex school cricket match. The accolade for the most complete sportsman arguably belongs to CB Fry. Neville Cardus, the Guardian’s cricket correspondent from 1919 until 1940, described Fry thus: “He was known first as an England cricketer and footballer, also as a great all-round athlete who for a while held the long jump record.” According to folklore he prepared for his long jump record in 1893 by smoking a cigar.  John Arlott called him “the most variously gifted Englishman of any age.” Combined with his sporting prowess he was a notable scholar, so while he gained a first-class degree in Classics from Oxford University, he also collected 12 Blues and captained the University at football, cricket and athletics. He was also good enough at rugby union to play for Blackheath and the Barbarians, and showed an aptitude for other sports such as rowing, tennis and golf. Cricket was the sport at which Fry excelled and, in complete contrast to Botham, England never lost a Test Match while he was captain. In scoring over 30,000 runs when the conditions heavily favoured the bowlers, one of his finest individual accomplishments came in 1901 when he scored six centuries in consecutive matches; a feat that had never been achieved before and one that has only been matched by Don Bradman and Mike Procter in first-class cricket since, but never beaten. In 1921 after playing for Sussex against Australia, the selectors approached him about captaining the side again. At the age of 49 he politely declined the offer and subsequently retired from cricket for good. Not content with such glittering sporting success, Fry was also a journalist of some repute and published his own magazine, as well as standing for parliament as a Liberal, but in a rare personal failure he did not win a seat in three attempts. Perhaps the most bizarre outcome of Fry’s consummate and varied skills was that he was reputedly offered the chance to be King of Albania but did not have the requisite income of £10,000. As Cardus rightly summed him up, “there has been only one CB Fry,” and one can say with a fair degree of certainty that there will never be another like him again. • This article is from the author of The Agony and the Ecstasy• Follow Richard Foster on Twitter 