 Stuart Broad has backed Alastair Cook to find his form again as the team prepare for the first Test against India at Trent Bridge. The England captain’s best score in the series defeat to Sri Lanka was 28, extending his run without a Test hundred to almost 14 months. Cook’s captaincy has also come under scrutiny with such as Shane Warne, Geoffrey Boycott and Kevin Pietersen all criticising the 29-year-old following a run of poor results. But it is his form with the bat that will draw the most focus in Nottingham, although Broad insists the lean run is just part of the game. “He’s obviously worked hard in the nets as Cooky does, he’s always first in and last out,” Broad said. “He likes to hit a lot of balls pre-series and that’s no different this week. He just needs that change of luck, all cricketers go through it from time to time and it’s Cooky’s turn. “We know he’s world class, we know he’s played over 100 Test matches with the record he’s got and there’s no doubt that will change for him.” Meanwhile, Broad suggests a convivial tete-a-tete may help his old captain Andrew Strauss and former team-mate Kevin Pietersen settle their differences. Broad insists there is no relevance for the current England team in Strauss’ description of Pietersen as “an absolute c**t” when he thought he was off-mic during television commentary. Pietersen and Strauss famously did not always see eye to eye as captain and senior batsman – but, in a present and future without either in the England team, Broad has the freedom to advise they simply have a polite and private rapprochement over a glass of wine. He anticipates the overture is most likely to come from Strauss. “They live pretty near to each other,” Broad said. “I’m sure Straussy will have KP round for a glass of white or red and discuss what’s happened.” Pietersen and Strauss fell out in 2012 after the former admitted sending “provocative” text messages about his captain to members of the touring South African team. Pietersen spent several months outside the England team before being “rehabilitated” in time to return the following winter under new captain Alastair Cook, Strauss having retired in the meantime. It was in his role as a pundit that Strauss inadvertently broadcast the obscenity on Saturday when he thought he was having a private conversation while he and a colleague were off air during the MCC’s televised fixture against the Rest of the World to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Lord’s. Pressed as to the probability of a clear-the-air chat, chez Strauss, Broad predicted the offer would be made – but appears less sure it will be taken up. “I’m sure the invite will go out ...” he said. 