John McEnroe enraged some stuffier tennis fans but it hasn’t hurt his career. A little bit of bad behaviour can be a delicious thing in sporting combat By James Willstrop for Willstrop’s World, part of the Guardian Sport Network 
 Tennis is currently struggling with its latest superbrat, Nick Kyrgios, whose half-hearted performance at the Shanghai Masters earned him a suspension and a £34,000 fine. It’s no surprise that he has been sanctioned by the authorities as his behaviour is at odds with tennis’s self image as a sport that espouses gentility and good manners; think of that white-kit rule at Wimbledon and the exclusivity of tennis clubs. Kyrgios’s antics look more extreme when set in the context of his sport. Each sport handles it rebels differently. Cricket is considered a “gentle” game but, like any sport, it has had its subverters. Tales of sledging are retold through the years and a lot of players wait to be dismissed when we all know they should be walking to the pavilion. Rugby seems to have a good balance for what is an aggressive sport. There’s the odd scrape – some ear-biting, eye-gouging and spear tackling – but referees come down heavily on dissent and it leaves some very tough athletes being respectful to officials, to the point of being almost deferential. Ice hockey, on the other hand, has fighting as part of the sport. It’s hard to imagine what players must have to do to exercise their disciplinary committees. Maybe the authorities don’t spring into action unless something really outrageous happens – an unleashing of lethal weapons on the rink perhaps. They probably think Kyrgios is about as threatening as a village fete. Footballers can get away with insulting officials, diving and gesticulating openly on TV. As far as I’m aware, field hockey players, swimmers, badminton players and rowers are not allowed to grab a referee by the shirt collar without some form of punishment. It’s laughable to even consider these things happening in other sports. At the World Squash Championships recently an Egyptian player, Fares Dessouki, walked off court at matchball down. He is likely to face some consequences for that decision – which is probably justified given that fans paid money to watch the full match – but we all have meltdowns in life; it’s just that athletes suffer them in public. No one ever knows what kind of a day an athlete has had. Despite the talk of “bringing sports into disrepute”, bad behaviour is often quite exciting for audiences. The papers certainly love Kyrgios. John McEnroe was considered a brat at the time, a slur on the sport in the eyes of some people, but look at him now. In retrospect, who would have advised him to curb that part of his personality? Millions of us sit down in front of televisions every evening to watch our favourite stories brought to life and all of them contain what we might deem “bad behaviour”. These stories have to be interesting. It’s the same for sports. Perhaps rebellion is even more fascinating when it comes in a more well mannered sport. It’s akin to the royal family trying so hard to maintain an unblemished image even though they are human like the rest of us. Divorce, scandal, conflict, saying politically incorrect things and generally “behaving badly” is as much a part of their lives as it is for everyone else. The public are interested because the gap between what is allowed and what actually happens is so pronounced. Back in the earlier 1990s, Anthony Hill got squash on the back page of a tabloid for headbutting an opponent. Squash had behaved well for most of its early life and yet this was the sport’s most newsworthy moment. Similarly, the Canadian squash player Jonathan Power breathed fresh life into the game. Audiences loved his McEnroe-esque oncourt tantrums and humorous putdowns to officials. England has produced its most successful generation of squash players ever in the last two decades but the sport’s profile has hardly risen at all. We have licked the boots of the International Olympic Committee for decades and behaved impeccably, doing everything we thought they wanted us to, but it got us nowhere. Perhaps when we decide to tell them where to shove their Olympics, as Rory Mclroy did, they might actually want to include us. Or maybe we should stop being so squeaky clean and get some of our players doped up and banned. It seems that cycling has become more revered and popular as stories about drugs have become more prominent – when you’d think it would be the other way round. And what clearer and more timely indication do we have at the minute than our friends over the pond – it’s not just in sport that bad behaviour attracts rather than repels the punters. My father and coach Malcolm has a clear stance on this subject. The first lesson he gives his players is not related to the mechanics of squash but is that they should conduct themselves with dignity and respect, and not be overly demonstrative on the court. I’ve grown up with this influence and so have become a relatively calm athlete. I am very grateful I was been taught that way and I know how much it has helped me to play better. I will always endorse that way of teaching but I have seen a lot of sport and, without condoning Kygrios, it’s worth contemplating that a little bit of the right bad behaviour can sometimes be a delicious thing in the context of sporting combat. • This is an article from James Willstrop’s blog• Follow James on Twitter 