 It was the reaction of the man who created them that was most significant. As the biggest row to hit this year's US Open became the talking point of American sport, Richard Williams suddenly became benign. No, he said, he didn't think Serena had been victimised by the umpire during her defeat at the hands of Jennifer Capriati in the quarter-finals.  The calls were bad, of course, but that's life; that's sport. That was the gist of it. I had seen this great bear of a man in a mellow mood before but never when one of his daughters was suffering apparent injustice.  Remember Indian Wells in 2001 when Venus had pulled out at match time against Serena in the semi-finals and the 16,000 crowd spent much of the following day booing Serena - as if it were her fault - during the final? Their father was apoplectic. And despite appeals from tournament director Charlie Pasarell they have never been back.  But there were still things to prove back then. Not any more. And that, I think, is the crux of it. Serena has won six grand-slam titles and has been number one in the world. Venus has won four of the big ones; been in the final of six others and has also had her time at number one. This is what Richard told us they would do when they were two little girls running around the shoddy courts of a Los Angeles ghetto more than 15 years ago. It was an outrageous prediction but everything that he claimed they would do on a tennis court they have dutifully done. 'They will both be number one in the world!' he said. 'They will both win Wimbledon!'  Oh yes, we said and marked him down as another daydreaming dad. But now it's all there in black and white and the cups are in the cupboard.  It ranks as one of the most amazing and least likely stories in sport. And it's done - not finished but done. The cake is baked and it's just a question of how much icing Serena or Venus want to pile on the top.  None of this is to suggest that we have seen the last on the Williams sisters on a tennis court. Venus still enjoys playing and has a little nagging thought at the back of her mind that, as the older sibling, she maybe ought to win just one more to slam to remind Serena of the fact. And Serena is certainly competitive enough to want more but once the aura of invincibility slips, dressing for the part is no longer good enough.  The denim micro-skirt and the leather leggings were all great fun for this year and the fashion world will hold its breath to see what she comes up with next, because Serena now rates even higher as a class-A celebrity than she does as a tennis champion.  But winning big tennis titles is suddenly more difficult. Amazingly for a woman who held all four grand-slam titles when she won the Australian Open in January 2003, she has now not won any of them since Wimbledon last year. A knee injury sidelined her during last year's US Open and the physical dominance with which she used to terrify opponents has not been quite as obvious since. And suddenly there are all these Russians - tall or short but all powerful. Svetlana Kuznetsova and Elena Dementieva played the final in the early hours of this morning having ended the American dreams of Lindsay Davenport and Jennifer Capriati respectively in the semi-finals. And don't forget the Belgians, either. Justine Henin-Hardenne is determined to reclaim her number-one spot and Kim Clijsters will be back, probably before the end of the year.  The competition is suddenly much stronger and it will all come down to how much Serena and Venus want it. They have been brought up to be multidimensional young women, which is what we all say is good, but will acting and designing and all the other activities they engage in became a distraction? And, if so, does it matter?  The way Serena reacted to those horrendous line calls won her many friends because there was a huge smile on her face when she professed to be 'bitter' and 'angry' and we allowed her a bit of poetic licence when she insisted 'normally I never argue - that's not me.'  Certainly she was never in the John McEnroe class but there were moments, when there were still things to prove, when dubious decisions were not allowed to pass unnoticed. But now? 'It's a game,' she says, shrugging, while remembering to add, 'I'll be back next year.'  For the sake of women's tennis, let's hope she will be because it is always more fun when she's around. But don't put too much money on more than a couple more grand-slam trophies finding their way into the Williams treasure chest. If daddy's taken his foot off the pedal, the whole caravan may soon slow to a halt. 