 With Justine Henin, last year's US Open champion, retiring in May at the ripe old age of 25, Maria Sharapova missing injured and Serbia's Ana Ivanovic, the No1 seed, losing in the second round here last week, next Saturday's final is beckoning strongly for Jelena Jankovic, the most talented woman in the top 10 yet to reach a grand slam singles final. The 23-year-old has the ability and brain to win a slam event but she has come to a juddering halt four times in the semi-final stage at Roland Garros (twice), Melbourne and Flushing Meadows. She is a beautiful mover, and hits the ball with considerable power, but her slight frame has frayed at the edges during the second weeks. To this end she has taken on the services of the American trainer Pat Etcheberry, who helped Henin overcome her physical disadvantages. The main problem for Jankovic is that she gets drawn into so many long matches during the first week that she often has little left when the real crunch comes. This pattern has continued here, although there were signs yesterday that she is beginning to manage the stresses and strains a little better. Denmark's Caroline Wozniacki had won the New Haven warm-up tournament just before the US Open - "the biggest win of my career" - and represented a distinct threat to the world No2. The potency of the teenager's challenge was quickly evident and she duly took the opening set, hitting through the ball in awkward, windy conditions with freedom. The 18-year-old Dane was a junior Wimbledon champion two years ago and has climbed into the top 20 this year. She is clearly likely to make a big impact in the coming years - but not on this occasion, when Jankovic finally brought her experience to bear. The Serbian steadied her early waywardness, forcing Wozniacki into more and more mistakes to win 3-6, 6-2, 6-1. "I have been working very hard on my fitness and I think I am now ready to make it to my first slam final," said Jankovic, clearly overjoyed and relieved to reach the quarter-finals where she will play the winner of the match between Austria's Sybille Bammer and Marion Bartoli of France. Jamie Murray, who won the 2007 Wimbledon mixed doubles title with Jankovic, reached the third round here with his naturalised American partner Liezel Huber, taking less than 90 minutes to defeat the Czech pair Kveta Peschke and Pavel Vizner 7-5, 6-3. Murray and Huber made the semi-finals here last year. 