 Welcome back. I don't think I'm getting ahead of myself if I say we're about to embark on the last session of the series. New Zealand lost four wickets this morning and have their Nos10 and 11 at the crease. When Danny Morrison saved the match at Auckland 11 years ago, he at least had Nathan Astle at the other end. Chris Martin has Tim Southee. Another nice email: "I am probably the only person genuinely thankful that the match will trickle on after lunch for a minute or two, as I managed to miss the entire morning," says Ian Copestake. "But I did want to say that you and the boys of the OBO will be missed, and to thank you for putting in these hours while being emailed by half-awake no-marks. Thanks a bunch, and take care." Don't worry - we're not going anywhere. Mwahahaha! 113th over: New Zealand 360-9 (Southee 12, Martin 1) Monty Panesar goes in search of his seventh wicket of the innings and who better to have at the other end than Martin? To his credit, he blocks out a maiden. "A shame the last session ended the way it did (not least because it delays you getting home for another 45 minutes) but Anderson should be ashamed of bowling that bouncer to Martin," says Alex Massie. "Let'scount the ways: a) Martin is the worst batsman in Test cricket, b) England are 200 runs ahead and c) they only need one wicket. As the laws say, when it comes to short-pitched bowling "the relative skill of the batsman shall be taken into account". I suppose it was only one delivery but any repetition should have been called "no-ball". Regardless, it was an ugly and unnecessary moment." 114th over: New Zealand 371-9 (Southee 23, Martin 1) Southee moves to 18 with his third six, stepping to leg and swatting Anderson over square-leg. A remarkable shot - and Southee appears to have lost the ball. Call it off! It's a draw! They find a new ball and Southee steps back again before pummelling Anderson through mid-off for four. A yorker is turned into a single to square-leg off the inside edge and Martin survives the last ball of another dismal Anderson over. "Gratifying as it is to see an England victory in this series, let's not lose sight of the fact the we have struggled to beat what is, essentially, the NZ 2nd XI," says Grant Blackledge. "Bar an excellent Sideshow Bob and a couple of other heroic performances we've been a bit pants really. This does not bode well for the UK summer - we will struggle against the Saffers with this line-up. Also thanks to you and your cohorts for the OBO. Most enjoyable and not a little informative too. Cheers and get some sleep."  115th over: New Zealand 395-9 (Southee 47, Martin 1) Now Southee gets stuck into Panesar, pulling him for four, then lifting him down the ground for his fourth six. Sensational! And there's six more, this time over midwicket. It's Nathan Astle all over again! The fifth ball is tonked down the ground for two and the last ball is mowed for six more! Great stuff: 24 off the over! "The series comes to an end just as baseball starts on its 163-game season," says Ian Jefferson. "See you next time around on OBO." 116th over: New Zealand 399-9 (Southee 47, Martin 5) There are seven slips waiting now for Martin, who gets inside the line and tucks Anderson for four to the unprotected fine-leg boundary. And that, would you believe, brings up the 50 stand. Maritn survives - Anderson, hang your head in shame. Why not just bowl someone who can hit the stumps? 117th over: New Zealand 416-9 (Southee 64, Martin 5) Southee reaches a half-century with his seventh six, this one off Panesar over midwicket: it's taken him just 29 balls and he's batting beautifully. That's the fastest fifty in New Zealand Test history! What more surprises does this series have in store? A slog over slip brings him four, before he collects two and then four over the off-side. Staggering! A pull for a single keeps the strike. Glorious stuff. That'll teach New Zealand to drop him to No10. 118th over: New Zealand 430-9 (Southee 78, Martin 5) On comes Broad - and there goes Broad, first ball, over long-on for six. Can Southee get a hundred? Can New Zealand... no, surely not. He swings and misses at the next ball, and there is laughter in the England dressing-room. How nervous is it, I wonder? There's six more, this time over midwicket - that was no more than a pick-up. Broad retaliates with a bouncer, but that's a wide. England are falling to pieces here as Ambrose confirms by letting the last ball of the over through his legs for a bye which gives Southee the strike. Oh dear. "At last a NZ batsman with a reasonable average," quips Peter Thornbury. WICKET! Martin b Sidebottom 5 (431) Sidebottom does what no one else could do against Martin and bowls a straight one to knock back off-stump. England win by 121 runs and take the series 2-1, although some of the gloss was taken off by Tim Southee's quite superb unbeaten 77 off 40 balls with nine - count 'em! - sixes. "Just woken up from a brief kip to discover that Southee is the new Astle," says Andrew Stroud. "Am I dreaming?" Well, well. That was quite a conclusion to a series that has twisted and turned from first to last. New Zealand might just have unearthed another Chris Cairns in Southee, whose leg-side hitting was ferociously clean, but England's extra class has told in the end. Sidebottom finishes with 24 wickets at 17, and Monty ends up with six in the innings and 11 in the series. New Zealand will be wondering how they lost this after reducing England to four for three on the first morning, but they really blew it in one session of madness on the second day. What a game, what a series. It's England's first away victory since they won in South Africa three years ago, and they must now be strong favourites to beat New Zealand at home in the series starting in May. Beyond that, who knows? There's still a lot of work to be done. Thanks very much for all the emails. It's been an absolute pleasure and I'm sure our paths will cross again. Night. 