 Great Britain's preparations for the crucial Davis Cup tie with Holland this weekend have been dealt a huge blow after Andy Murray admitted his groin injury is "not too good" and then insisted he will only participate if "100% fit". Murray has been suffering from hip and groin problems since his quarter-final victory over Tommy Haas in Indian Wells last month. The British No1 recovered to compete in Miami last week but, despite his denials, was clearly hampered by injury in the 6-1 6-0 defeat to Novak Djokovic in the semi-finals. Fears over the 19-year-old's condition were eased when he practised alongside team-mates at the new National Tennis Centre in Roehampton on Sunday. But Murray, who carried a bacterial infection through last year's defeat by Serbia, said the groin "didn't feel good at all" in the wake of the session and has vowed not to put his health at risk this time around. "I made that mistake last year before the Monte Carlo Masters," he said. "I tried to play when I was still sick and didn't [give] myself too much help going into the clay court season. I'm not 100% fit, I don't know if I'll be 100% fit for the weekend and unless I am 100% fit I won't play. "My groin is not too good. The inflammation in my hip bone is not too bad but I tried practising yesterday and didn't feel good at all. The pain is in my right groin, it's really uncomfortable when I move to wide balls and stretch my legs a lot." Worryingly for John Lloyd, Britain's Davis Cup captain, time is against Murray. The British team, comprising Murray and his brother Jamie, Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski, begin their second-round match against the Dutch in Birmingham on Friday and Murray wants a decision to be made "sooner rather than later", allowing his replacement, either Jamie Baker or Richard Bloomfield, enough time to prepare for what would be their Cup debut. The importance of Murray is magnified by the fact that Henman, returning from a self-imposed two-year exile, has won just once this year and Rusedski has played only one competitive match in a minor Challenger event. The Scot will attempt to practise at the National Exhibition Centre venue tomorrow and intends to decide on his availability on Thursday morning. "I wouldn't know [where to rate my chances of being fit] because I haven't really played," he added. "I enjoy playing for my country but if I'm not fit enough to do it then I don't want to go out and do my country a disservice. I did that last year and I won't make the same mistake again." 