Donna Vekic, the focus of insult by Australian to Stanislas Wawrinka, says sport’s image has been tarnished as more players and families get involved Donna Vekic, the focus of insult by Australian to Stanislas Wawrinka, says sport’s image has been tarnished as more players and families get involved 
 The tennis player Donna Vekic, who was at the centre of the “sledging” row between Nick Kyrgios and Stanislas Wawrinka last week, has accused the Australian of harming the image of the sport.  Vekic, 19, Wawrinka’s girlfriend, finally broke her silence on the incident by calling the remark by Kyrgios “disappointing” and saying she hopes hehas learned from the controversy.  Since the incident on court in Montreal, Kyrgios, who is 20 and already a divisive figure in the sport, has been forced to issue a humbling apology to Wawrinka and pay a fine levied by the Association of Tennis Professionals.  But the world of tennis remains scandalised by the incident, which has snowballed into a soap opera involving not only Kyrgios, Wawrinka, Vekic and another up and coming Australian player Thanasi Kokkinakis, but also Kyrgios’s brother Christos, his mother Nill and the American player Ryan Harrison. It was during his second round tie against Wawrinka at the Rogers Cup last week that an on-court microphone picked up Kyrgios muttering: “Kokkinakis banged your girlfriend. Sorry to tell you that mate.” Although it was not immediately clear that Wawrinka heard the comment, he later responded on Twitter and told reporters that he had confronted Kyrgios in the changing rooms after the match.  “It [what was said] will stay in the locker room,” Wawrinka said. “There are things, regardless of how you are, regardless of the stress you have on the court, there are things you just can’t say.” What was said I wouldn't say to my worst enemy. To stop so low is not only unacceptable but also beyond belief. Wawrinka, 30, a two-times grand slam champion from Switzerland, has been linked with Vekic, the women’s world No 129, after his marriage to Ilham Vuilloud broke down earlier this year. Vekic had so far stayed silent, but spoke to a reporter from the Province, a Canadian daily, as she prepared to compete at the Odlum Brown Vancouver Open. “I’m trying to focus on tennis and my next match,” she said. “I haven’t spoken to Kyrgios. But it’s a very disappointing thing to be happening in our sport and I hope it won’t happen again because it’s not a very good image for our sport.” Asked if she felt Kyrgios had learned from the incident, she replied: “I hope so.” Earlier this week, Kokkinakis was involved in a heated on-court clash with American player Ryan Harrison who brought up the issue during a match in Cincinnati. The pair had to be separated by tournament officials at the end of the match, edged by Kokkinakis 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (7-2), with Harrison telling the umpire afterwards: “You have got to get these kids under control or they’re gonna get hurt.” According to witnesses, during the match Harrison shouted: “Your whole crew is just so cool” at Kokkinakis, apparently referencing last week’s drama. Before that, on Friday, Kyrgios’s brother Christos  stirred the controversy by publicising a further derogatory comment about Vekic after a radio station kicked him off to prevent it being broadcast. Christos subsequently posted his comments on his Facebook page. “So just did a media interview for Nick [Kyrgios]. Said Donna [Vekic] obviously loved the ‘kokk’ [sic]. They cut my interview and said its the worst thing they have ever heard on air. Ah cheers.” Kyrgios’s mother, Nill, has also waded in, writing “sledge for a sledge” on her personal Twitter account. She later deleted the account. 