 What should have been a pure celebration for Andy Murray of his 10th career title and another win over the world No1 became an anti-climax today when he beat an injured Rafael Nadal to win the ATP tournament. A knee injury to the Spaniard meant he could barely push up on his serve in the second set and, though it affected Murray for a while, he gathered himself in the deciding set to win 6–3, 4–6, 6–0 for his second title of the year. Lesser men would have quit long before the end but Nadal is not the retiring type. Having had treatment to his right knee when leading 2–1 in the second set he struggled horribly on serve but soldiered on in the third set even though he knew that, once Murray regained his focus, the match would be beyond him. It took a little of the gloss off Murray's win but, having been beaten by the Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in the fourth round at the Australian Open, the Scot will have been delighted with the way he bounced back, outplaying Nadal for a set before the Spaniard's knee gave way. Seven of his titles have come indoors and it is hard to think of anyone better than him when the skies are blocked out. How he must wish there could be an indoor grand slam event. "Well, they're getting the roof at Wimbledon this year and there's a lot of rain around, so I am sure I'll get to play some indoor matches on the Centre Court," Murray said. Perversely it had been Murray whose fitness had been in question before the match after he suffered a slight ankle injury earlier in the week which has led to him pulling out of this week's tournament in Marseilles, where he would have been the defending champion. By the end of this match, though, Nadal, who had produced a super-human effort to beat Roger Federer in the final in Melbourne a fortnight ago, could barely serve at all. "I could not push up on my serve and it was killing [my mind]," Nadal said. The Nadal camp would have been concerned at the sight of the 22-year-old having treatment to his right knee. He missed the Davis Cup final at the end of 2008 because of tendinitis but he said it was a different injury and not as serious. "I don't think it is anything important," he said. "It's not the same as at the end of last year. It's something new from this week." If Federer was watching he will surely have envied the effect Murray has on Nadal. Unlike when he plays Federer Nadal is unable to dominate the baseline rallies because the Scot's backhand is superior to that of the Swiss. The slick indoor courts at the Ahoy arena also helped and, although it may be unwise to suggest that Murray has Nadal's number, he certainly knows what works for him against the Spaniard. "Even though I lost the first five times I played against him, I felt as if I played well; I felt my game matched up pretty well against him," Murray said. "Each time I play against him I think I've got the tactics right. I just need to execute them and I have done that the last couple of times. It's a good week for me." After Murray had taken the first set with the kind of play he produced in beating the Spaniard in the US Open last September Nadal was leading 2–1 in the second set when he called the trainer. Nadal could not push off on his serve and Murray should have wrapped up victory in straight sets. That he did not was a combination of Nadal's decision to go for broke on his own returns and the fact that Murray clearly found it difficult to maintain his concentration against an injured opponent. The rest of the second set was more like a women's match as seven straight games went against serve and against the odds Nadal had levelled the match. "He wasn't running that hard but he was hitting the ball harder than he was in the first set and I didn't know what to do," Murray said. "I struggled to serve and got a little bit nervous. Then I started to serve better in the third set but it was tough. 