 Preamble Morning all. Andy Wilson is at the Roses game today, while Richard Rae is at Hampshire v Notts and Paul Weaver will be watching Warwickshire v Sussex at Edgbaston. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Video highlights are here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Andy Bull, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield. 11.02am: A very good morning to all from a cloudy but dry Rose Bowl, writes Richard Rae. Hampshire and Nottinghamshire are preparing to do battle on the wicket used for last night's CB40 game - which, as anyone who caught any of the game either in person on the box will attest, suggests this match just might not last the full four days.  Durham spinners Gareth Breese and Scott Borthwick were turning the ball sharply - if not quite square - and it seems likely that Notts might therefore play the young left-arm spinner Graeme White instead of one of the seamers, presumably either Charlie Shreck or Luke Fletcher. Hampshire naturally have Danny Briggs and Imran Tahir in their eleven.  On the subject of shortened games, Hampshire's 'Rose Bowl Round-Up' informs us that when Notts played Hampshire in May 1930, on the final day the visitors took the field in 'lounge suits', rather than whites. Apparently Hampshire had needed just one run to complete a five wicket victory when the extra half hour ended on the second evening, but Nottinghamshire skipper AW Carr refused to play on. As some sort of protest Notts wore their suits to complete the match the following morning. In fact, Fred Barrett and Bill Voce wore their overcoats. Wonder what the ECB disciplinary panel would make of that these days - the captain would be strung up, presumably. 11.20am: First blood to Yorkshire, and Ryan Sidebottom, at Headingley, writes Andy Wilson (hotfoot from dropping wife and kids at Piccadilly - it's summer holiday time). He had two loud lbw appeals against Paul Horton turned down in the first over, but Stephen Moore received harsher treatment from the umpire George Sharp, who is standing here with Neil Mallender in a pairing of former Northamptonshire men. Sidebottom is swinging it under heavy cloud, which must have made it an easy decision for Andrew Gale on winning the toss this morning. Sidebottom is sharing the new ball with Iain Wardlaw, a tall 26-year-old from Cleckheaton who joins a fairly select band to have made their Championship debut in a Roses Match. He replaces Tim Bresnan in one of two changes from the team that beat Worcestershire in Scarborough last week. The other amendment will make Yorkshire hearts sing, as Jacques Rudolph has received visa clearance to return to the top of their batting order. However it's disappointing that Adam Lyth has to make way. Anthony McGrath receives another chance in the middle order. Lancashire have Glen Chapple returning for his first appearance since early June, and claim the moral high ground by fielding an all-English XI, with Farveez Maharoof back in Sri Lanka and Junaid Khan omitted. 12.34pm: Welcome to a damp and overcast Edgbaston, which is so noisy it reminds me of my alternative beat on the Formula One circuit, writes Paul Weaver. It's like a building site here - and I don't mean lots of people lolling around with a cuppa and a fag on. They really seem busy here as they prepare for next month's Test match. The crowd is not bad for a chilly morning - pushing four figures, I'd say, maybe even 1,200. There were no PA announcements to tell them what was going on but Sussex won the toss and chose to field and their decision was rewarded when Jimmy Anyon dismissed both openers in his opening spell. The team news for Sussex is that Michael Yardy – still the club captain – is back in the side for his fourth championship match of the season. They have also brought in Bill Adkin for Amjad Khan, who has not been at his best this season. For Warwickshire, Laurie Evans has come in for his first match of the season, replacing Chris Metters. Anyon looks a good bowler these days, full of pace and aggression. In his first over he did for the prolific Varun Chopra, who edged a fine delivery which left him late through the air as he played forward. It was bounce, more than movement, which accounted for Ian Westwood. I didn't hear an edge and he may have gloved it to the keeper. Anyon's opening burst reads 7-3-17-2. This is my first match of the season and it's great to be watching cricket again. I've even got over my bad mood of the early morning. Morning TV always puts me in a bad mood - radio is getting more and more difficult to find in even decent hotel rooms. Breakfast TV seems to have been prepared by cows, that is indigestible news items are repeatedly regurgitated and re-chewed as cud. It's even more repetitive than Radio 5 Live, which is saying something. I had to turn it off. 1.10pm: Lancashire are 79 for two after a fascinating, attritional first morning of the Roses Match, writes Andy Wilson. They will be pretty happy with that, after losing Stephen Moore lbw for a duck in the second over of Ryan Sidebottom's excellent opening burst, and then Karl Brown slashing to Jacques Rudolph – a promising newcomer from the Heavy Woollen district? – with the score on 41. Paul Horton has batted throughout the session for 36, and Mark Chilton has inched into double figures. Both have had to ride their luck, with Richard Pyrah driven to distraction as he passed the outside edge on numerous occasions. But how Yorkshire must wish Tim Bresnan was here rather than at Lord's. Their frustration will only increase if he is omitted from England's final XI tomorrow. Now the sun is poking through the grey clouds, a brass band in military red are playing, and all's well with the world. 1.15pm: Warwickshire have got through to lunch without any further accidents, although Evans was dropped at slip off Rana Naved when he had scored just 11, writes Paul Weaver.Just before the break William Porterfield completed his half-century, off 86 balls with six fours. So the wisdom of the insertion is a talking point over lunch. If that catch had been taken it would have looked a bit better from the Sussex point of view but Warwickshire must have thought they had fought back well when Monty Panesar came on to bowl the 25th over just before the break.Monty replaced Rana, whose figures of 12-1-38-0 did not reflect some useful deliveries 1.35pm: Well, the rain is finally easing off, but it's still very grey and damp at the Rose Bowl, writes a despondent Richard Rae. One hopeful sign is a game of lamppost - or to be more precise floodlightpost - cricket going on: less optimistically there's no sopping action, groundsman Nigel Gray and his staff staying very much under cover. In the meantime, this heart-warming press release arrives from the Sussex County Cricket club: The charity that supports the Sussex Young Cricketers is delighted to announce that it has received a generous donation of £5,000 from Mushtaq Ahmed. Mushtaq played an invaluable part in Sussex's golden decade, becoming the first bowler for five years to take 100 wickets in a Championship season in 2003, as Sussex won the title for the first time and both he and the team repeated the feat in 2006. He is currently England's spin bowling coach. Chairman of the Sussex Cricket in the Community Trust (SCCT), David Bowden, stated "This wonderful charitable gesture by Mushy is a tremendous boost for our appeal fund. We have set ourselves a target of £50,000 to improve the scoreboards and other facilities at the excellent Sutton Winson Academy Ground at Blackstone, near Henfield. West Sussex". There's a lot more, but you get the picture. 3.50pm: Slip-fielding continues to be a problem for Yorkshire, writes Andy Wilson. Gary Ballance had a shocker in their last game at Scarborough, spilling three chances in Worcestershire's second innings. They didn't prove too costly, but Anthony McGrath's failure to take a straightforward offering from Steven Croft has already proved expensive here. Croft only had 25 when he edged Ryan Sidebottom at comfortable height, only a couple of overs after McGrath had taken Mark Chilton at second slip to give Sidebottom his third wicket of the innings. But this time the former England man grassed it, and Croft has gone on to reach his first Championship half century since May.  Lancashire, who should have been 135 for five, are instead 186 for four, with Tom Smith playing some handsome drives to reach 28. All this in increasingly gloomy, still conditions which really should be ideal for the Yorkshire swingers, of whom Richard Pyrah has been especially unlucky. Rain feels imminent now - from our lofty vantage point, we can see some really nasty stuff over the city - and Yorkshire will surely be regretting a missed opportunity to seize control of their 3,000th County Championship match. 3.55pm: No official announcement, but there's going to be no play at all at the Rose Bowl, writes Richard Rae. The rain has just about stopped, and there are no puddles on the outfield, but there are plenty on the covers, and there's just not enough time to get it all mopped up. The fact that there is no groundstaff action would seem to support that contention. Frustrating as the loss of an entire day's play is, there's still a decent chance of a result on a wicket that is used and a proven turner. 4pm: Ajmal Shahzad has struck a significant blow for Yorkshire with the last ball before tea, and it could land Lancashire's Steven Croft in a spot of bother. Croft was bowled by a low full toss from Shahzad that he did not seem to pick up, and his angry reaction as he marched off to the pavilion suggested he believed the umpires should have taken the players off for bad light. He certainly exchanged words with the umpire Neil Mallender, who then called across to his colleague George Sharp. Croft, who has had a difficult season in the Championship in contrast to his prolific one-day form, had grafted to 54 from 108 balls, sharing a sixth-wicket stand of 77 with Tom Smith. Lancashire are 193 for five at tea, so honours are probably just about even. 4.15pm: I have just managed to lose myself (twice) in the labyrinthine layers of he new pavilion stand in a bid to say hello to Ashley Giles and Mark Robinson, who are in charge of cricket at Warwickshire and Sussex respectively, writes Paul Weaver at Edgbaston. The Sussex players have gone outside to get warm - they can't turn off the air-con in their dressing room. This is where he new press box will be, but it's not ready yet. Unfortunately the wifi in the old box isn't working any more.Robbo tells me that Amjad Khan is still suffering with the bruised heel he had at the end of their recent game against Hampshire, at Hove. "The heel hasn't healed," was Robbo's explanation, given with a grin. The fast bowler has also been in Denmark for the birth of his child.Ash looks cheerful enough too. With some reason. Warwickshire, who are third in the first division to Sussex's fourth, are a bit short of batting, so 167-4 after being put in, and with the ball doing a bit, is not a bad effort. They had hoped have Shivnarine Chanderpaul for this game, but he's had visa problems. And the club is resigned to the possibility of being without Darren Maddy, who has a broken left little finger, which is more complicated than it sounds, for the rest of the season.In their absence, Porterfield and Evans played very well until, in the 42nd over, Porterfield was caught at first slip by Yardy, as he played forward to Anyon. Evans played some handsome drives to reach his maiden championship fifty from 123 balls, with six fours, before he was lbw playing back to Panesar. We've had 67 overs by tea, which is a pretty nifty effort by Sussex. Thanks Monty. 5.15pm: At 21 William Adkin has probably stopped growing, which is a pity, because he might have toppled Leicestershire's Will Jefferson as the tallest man in the county game, writes Paul Weaver at Edgbaston.He is 6ft 8 1/2in according to the book. Coach Mark Robinson says he is 6ft 9in and adds: "He played a game last year. He'd class himself as a batter who bowls. At one point he was bowling off-spin and we insisted that he packed that in and we're trying to bring him through as a seamer. So he's one for the future, hopefully."Adkin certainly looks full of promise but it was the old hand Panesar who put Sussex on top here with a double breakthrough after tea. Jim Troughton and Tim Ambrose had added 57 runs in 28 overs for the fifth wicket when the former was caught by Ed Joyce at silly-point.Then, two overs later, Panesar had Rikki Clarke lbw having a horrible hoik to leg. Clarke had made zero in ten balls. Clarke has been linked in a possible move to Sussex but that shot was ugly enough to make Sussex change their mindsWarwickshire were 192 for six and Sussex had the edge once again. Panesar is bowling so well that Sussex delayed taking the new ball. And when they did take it, at 198 for six, Panesar shared it with Anyon. 6.30pm: A late flurry of strokes from Chris Woakes has given Warwickshire a narrow advantage here at the end of the first day, writes Paul Weaver at Edgbaston. Woakes came to the wicket at 192 for six and hit an unbeaten 45 from only 54 balls. But Sussex have only themselves to blame, because he was twice dropped in the slips in consecutive overs, first by Ollie Rayner, when he had made 17, and then by Michael Yardy, when he was on 20. An aggressive Woakes has hit seven fours. The groundstaff obviously don't listen to the PA announcements here. Play ended late, at 6.12pm, because of rain after tea. But the groundstaff started to bring the covers on at the scheduled 6pm close and had to be waved back by the umpires. 