 Roger Federer gave the impression that he has been galvanised by Rafael Nadal's wonderful performance in the Wimbledon final last month as he hurtled into the Masters Series final here with his fourth successive straight-sets win.  The triple grand-slam titleholder has arguably never restarted so smoothly or in such a high gear after winning in SW19 and in the second set of a 7-6 (8-6) 6-2 win over Radek Stepanek he transformed a contest that had been at an interesting level pegging into one in which he accelerated out of sight. Federer did that by threatening to tangle up Stepanek's feet in the sequence of treacherous service returns, which he worked into very small targets.  Afterwards he talked about how resiliently Nadal has been playing in reaching the semi-finals against Novak Djokovic here on a surface that does not suit the Spaniard at all - one of the fastest hard court surfaces on the tour.  'I have seen Rafa battling incredibly hard so I am not surprised he is doing so well again,' Federer said. 'He is dangerous on this surface as well. But it is Novak Djokovic who has made a breakthrough here by beating [Andy] Roddick. That was big for him. Nadal meanwhile saved set points against a briefly resurgent Marat Safin. He also saved six points to avoided going a set and a break down against the elegantly in-form Paul-Henri Mathieu, and come back from a set down amidst a cauldron of Canadian partisanship to get past the surprising Frank Dancevic.  He has also delivered regularly in the 130mph region with his first serve, found avenues to the net from time to time, and maintained impressive self-criticism about the need to take the ball earlier.  Nadal has also graduated to a slightly shorter selection of pirate pants and done enough to justify speculation that he may be good enough now to trouble Federer at the US Open.  But the progress of Djokovic is almost as ominous. Friend, fellow 20-year-oldand erstwhile rival of Andy Murray, the Serb's surge has followed a Wimbledon semi-final and confirmed him as the world's third-best player and contrasted strikingly with the Briton's difficult predicament.  Murray has decided he would rather risk the setback of another demoralising defeat than continue to sit on the sidelines for another week. He continues his comeback from a wrist injury this week in Cincinnati.  But an unkind draw has landed Murray with Marcos Baghdatis, the former Australian Open finalist from Cyprus who is one of the most gifted ball-strikers of them all. If he were somehow to survive that, he might find even himself with a second round against Tim Henman who meets an old rival, Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina.  It must be galling for Murray to realise that short time ago he was eight in the world and has slipped to a seeding of 14 this week - and that it is bound to fall further before the US Open in a fortnight's time. It was Federer whom Murray sensationally beat in the second round at Cincinnati last year. And although this seems a long time ago right now, the memory of that triumph may have been one of the ingredients in the decision to make the journey to the boiling hot plains of Ohio. Maria Sharapova, fresh from her title win in San Diego last weekend, is continuing her successful run in the East West Bank Classic in Los Angeles. She beat fellow Russian Elena Dementieva 6-3 6-4 in the quarter-finals to set up a semi-final meeting with number-four seed Nadia Petrova, who beat Virginie Razzano 6-7 (7-3) 6-4 6-1. Regardless of how she fares in LA, Sharapova has pulled out of this week's tournament in Toronto, citing fatigue. 