 Just over a year ago I was sitting in a hotel in Hamburg talking to Venus Williams, then the world's number one woman tennis player. She was addressing the 'problem' of beating her younger sister, Serena, whom she had eclipsed somewhat embarrassingly 6-2, 6-4 in the previous year's US Open final. She hoped, and believed, such one-sided results would not get in the way of their special relationship - 'I would never let that happen. It would never get personal' - and talked with great affection of 'Little Serena!', of how 'in the beginning she thought she was me' and how she could not believe her kid sister was 'twenty now and all grown up!' Twelve months on, I'm sitting in a hotel in Rome, talking to Serena Williams, now the world's number one woman tennis player. She is addressing the 'problem' of beating her older sister, Venus, in each of the four grand-slam finals she has won since then. At what point, I wonder, might it become embarrassing: what if she wins 10 in a row, say? She thinks for a moment about this. 'I haven't got there yet,' she says, clearly believing she might. 'We have a strong foundation, and I think that counts most. Tennis won't be there for ever, but we will always be sisters, and I think we both understand that.' We have got so used to the extraordinary Williams fairytale, that no further plot twists seem remarkable. The story of the 'ghetto Cinderellas' muscling their way into the 'lily-white world of tennis' was scripted by their father, Richard, who predicted wildly from the beginning, when he embarked on his home-made coaching programme on the public courts of Los Angeles, that his daughters would soon be the top two players in the world. The fact that history currently threatens to make Venus a footnote to Serena's story, rather than the other way around, however, is perhaps the most surprising development of all.  You could see it as a triumph of perspiration over inspiration. As their mother has pointed out, Serena always had to work hard for success, but everything always came easy to Venus, whether it was at school or on the tennis court. When I put this description to Venus she conceded her Mom had a point: 'I guess I always knew I'd be a champ,' she said, in her giggly way. 'You know I was always really very, very good. Serena, on the other hand, wasn't very good at all. She was small, really slim and the racket was way too big for her. Hopeless. Believe it or not she used to lob and slice. That was her game. She started playing especially good tennis at around 15, which was soon enough - I mean she won the US Open two years later - but still it was quite late compared to me. You know,' she said, 'I was always Venus...'  Serena it seems, though, was not always Serena. When I ask her what has changed to so reverse the siblings' respective fortunes on court, she suggests her twentieth birthday, which came just after that US Open defeat, was the turning point. She won't elaborate, but something happened then inside her head that made her believe that she was no longer 'little Serena', that she was in fact 'all grown up'. She agrees with the idea that prior to that she had always simply wanted to be her sister. 'I always thought I needed to do the same things Venus does, have the same friends, be the same on tour. Then I suddenly thought, well I'm a little more outgoing than she is, I like different places. I like being in LA and she doesn't. And we were living together, still are, but I needed to move on a little, to be myself.'  I wonder if a part of this self had not been a bit frightened to become number one, to fulfil the potential she had been told about for as long as she could remember, to turn herself from prodigy into champion.  'I probably was a little scared,' she says. 'I wasn't ready to play all the tournaments, to really make the commitment. And maybe my game was not ready, either. I wasn't serious. I mean I had a great time, I travelled around. I had fun and I wasn't worried about anything. I guess I was young,' she suggests, sagely, and I feel I have to remind her that she is still only 21.  Serena's coming-out year was announced, in true debutante style, with a series of spectacular new outfits. For the French Open she wore a skin-tight Lycra number in the colours of Cameroon's football World Cup squad. For the US Open she helped to design her black, leather-look body suit, a piece of tennis clothing about as far from frilly knickers and Teddy Tinling as could be imagined. If there was a sporting image of 2002 it was a photograph of Serena blasting a dominatrix forehand at Forest Hills, all bicep and backside. Middle-aged newspaper editors have long been fixated with the undergarments of female tennis players, from Gussie Moran to Anna Kournikova, via the skirt-lifting Athena poster; Serena took that fixation to its logical conclusion: her outfit was all undergarment.  She is clearly not shy - she sits opposite me in a fluorescent orange skinny-rib and tight white shorts - but on that occasion was she a teensy bit afraid to come out of the locker room?  She beams her smile (worth a couple of million dollars a year in toothpaste endorsements). 'Well, I thought it fit pretty well,' she says. 'I mean I hadn't worn it before I went out on court so I was a bit, wow, when I first put it on, but I got used to it. I did put a leather jacket on over it to walk out the first time though.'  Did her confidence in her body demonstrate the arrival of the full-on Serena?  'Well,' she says, almost coyly, 'no way am I happy with how I look. But I think you have to try to be comfortable with what you have, and these days, I am.'  What the body suit did reveal, graphically, was the absolute power she brought to the court. No previous women's champion, not even Martina Navratilova with her pumped-up forearms, has harnessed a comparable sense of palpable aggression. How much does she imagine she intimidates opponents?  'I'm not sure they are frightened of my physical power,' she suggests. 'But I do have a lot of power and strength mentally, and self-confidence. And a lot of people are deterred by that.'  Some of this strength, she says, she takes from being a black player. Venus has mostly been publicly non-commital to questions about race, as laid back about that as she is about most everything else, but Serena is happy to say that she feels she is 'a black player 100 per cent. I mean when I first came along I said I'm not playing for anybody, I'm just playing for myself. But in reality I know I'm playing for a lot of people. I'm playing for those little girls, who never watched tennis, who never had a chance to play tennis, who might say "I want to be Serena Williams, I want to be Venus Williams" - and I feel very proud to be taking on that responsibility.'  Are there still tennis clubs in the States where she feels she would not be welcome?  'Things have changed a lot in America, but we haven't come that far,' she says. 'It's only a hundred years. I think I don't have too many problems because people tend to know who I am. But if they didn't, then I guess it would still be very tough in some places.'  Her father was always quick to understand the significance, particularly the commercial significance, of his children's background. The sisters' arrival on the womens' tour was attended by stories of tennis practice interrupted by drive-by shootings; of gangland deals made with Crips and Bloods to ensure the girls could concentrate on their topspin. A good deal of this, Serena suggests, was mythology, designed to offer a seductive narrative to their sponsors. The family moved from Compton, the rough district of LA where she was born, when she was nine. She went to a small private school, and in any case, she says, those areas are never quite as bad as people make them out to be. Still, the drive-by shooting did happen, and she and Venus had to throw themselves down on to the court to escape the bullets. 'I guess the guy was aiming for someone else,' she says. 'And anyway, these days where doesn't that kind of thing happen?'  There have been continued reports of hostility toward the sisters from their home crowd and suggestions that they were 'uppity' from other players, but she denies that she has ever felt this racist undertow.  'Sometimes in other countries, perhaps, when I'm playing against a home player. But if I get a bad crowd, I think it's more like people want me to lose, because at the moment I'm always winning. I'm like the [Los Angeles] Lakers in basketball: when you are out in front some people want to see you knocked down.'  For the time being there does not seem too much prospect of those doubters being satisfied very often. So startling has been Serena's ascendancy in the past year that in the big tournaments, and particularly on the fast grass at Wimbledon, it is hard to see who can challenge her. Great tennis players require a rivalry to secure their legend, but only her sister, at the moment, looks capable of upsetting her, and it seems doubtful whether Venus, always a bit sceptical about total commitment, will maintain the desire to do this consistently.  Serena's domination, of course, is directly convertible into dollars. Hardly a week goes by these days when she is not voted something like America's Most Valuable Icon, and just as she has moved into a different sphere on court, so she is set to overtake her sister, (and the current number one earner in women's sport, Anna Kournikova) in the sponsors' eyes. Her 'apparel and footwear deal' with Puma, which has paid her $13 million since she was 16 years old, is about to expire. She is, it is reported, being courted by Nike with an initial offer of $50m over the next five years (Venus meanwhile has a $40m deal with Reebok). Doesn't the money offered to her by all these men in suits who sell pumps seem faintly ludicrous?  She says she doesn't know anyone who ever feels they have enough money. 'I'm very happy, I'm satisfied. I don't need elaborate cars. I don't need huge houses. I have a small apartment in LA and that's perfect for me. My needs are modest. But I do have my indulgences. I do love to shop.'  What's the most money she has turned down?  'Oh I don't know,' she says. 'A lot.'  I imagine it must sometimes get in the way of relationships off court. Her image is so strong, and her wealth so extraordinary, that it must be hard to find, say, a man she can trust?  She smiles. 'That is very tough, you know. A lot of people are dishonest and I have run into a couple, I mean a few, I mean several... I mean a whole lot of guys who have let me down. I think there are very, very, very few good guys out there. But I have to believe there are some, so I'll just have to try hard to search and find one. I guess you only need one!'  How much of a role model has her dad been, when she looks for a man in her life?  'I guess a lot of girls look for a guy in the model of their dad, and maybe I'm not different. I love my dad dearly, he's a great guy, but for all his encouragement, he's always been big on letting us have our freedom. I have been worried what he might think of some decisions I have made, but he has always been great about it.'  Her parents were divorced last year, a decision which she says is entirely their lookout. 'I always say: If they like it, I love it.' Her mother, Brandi, mostly travels with her and organises her practice. As we talk, Brandi sits with Serena's two bodyguards (hired since she was recently followed by a stalker) at an adjacent table, a formidable figure in a yellow tracksuit, talking constantly into a mobile. I wonder if Serena has always felt she was performing for one or the other of her parents?  'I don't think I'm performing for either,' she says, looking over at her Mom out of the corner of her eye. 'When I was younger I might have been. They wanted me to play tennis and I thought it was important to be obedient. Now, though, the rebel that I am, I have decided to do it for myself.'  She has decided, too, to concentrate on her game for a few years to the exclusion of all else. There is not much time for partying, she says, for the new mature Serena. 'I don't like to go out to clubs or whatever. I like to stay home. I have my TV schedule starting at six o'clock. The Golden Girls for an hour, then Entertainment Tonight , and I carry on with that until I go to sleep.'  Does she dream about tennis?  'I try not to.'  She's not playing the perfect backhand down the line all night in her head?  'I used to, when I was young, but not now, not often anyway. I have the weirdest dreams, but they hardly ever involve backhands!'  Her daydreams are the usual ones, however, of being a model and a movie star. She's had a couple of small roles in films but hasn't really the time to devote to it. I suggest she might make a great action hero, the new Sigourney Weaver, but have the sense she would rather be a romantic lead. Her main involvement with movies is watching them, although, she confesses, 'nobody wants to go to a movie with me. I'm one of those in the movie theatre: I scream and laugh and cry. I clap all the way through. Always the loudest. "I can't look. I gotta go. I gotta go!" That kind of thing. Everyone ends up edging away from me.'  If she is to make her mark in Hollywood, it won't be for a good few years yet. She looks at Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras as examples, and believes she can play tennis for another decade at least. I wonder if she believes it would be possible to have kids while on tour, and she says she's not sure. 'I'd love a son, you know, but I am not convinced I'm ready for all that pain, or all those sleepless nights. I don't think it would be easy to have children and play tennis. But I have time on my side.'  In the meantime she is concentrating on being a grown-up herself. The family hardly ever all gets together these days - she has three other older sisters apart from Venus - or if they do it is often in her absence. 'I'm never home,' she admits. 'I think they ask each other: "Anyone know where Serena is?" And no one really knows.'She smiles at her new-found freedom, and her apparent omnipotence. 'The thing is,' she says, 'Serena is everywhere, all the time.'  Tim Adams's book, On Being John McEnroe, is published by Yellow Yersey on 12 June 