 It did not take long for Derbyshire to rediscover what they had been missing in the eight years since they last played at this beautiful ground. An attendance of 1,558 generated takings in excess of £6,500, well above their averages at Derby; the pitch and outfield had sufficient pace to encourage positive strokeplay in an entertaining recovery from 176 for six and Chesterfield Borough Council were so keen to have them back that in addition to a lottery-funded £4m facelift for Queen's Park, they have even invested in some collies trained to drive away the Canada geese from the boating lake. "It's an American thing called Geese Peace," explained the park manager with a straight face. "We're not bothered about the mallards, moorhens and coots but the geese crap all over the paths." Derbyshire have been playing here since 1898, when the Yorkshire openers John Brown and John Tunnicliffe put on 554. Steve Stubbings and Michael Di Venuto could only manage 33 before Stubbings called an optimistic single to midwicket and was run out by Stephen Moore's direct hit. Di Venuto then shouldered arms to a clever inswinger from Matt Mason, Worcestershire's impressive England-qualified Australian who went on to take five for 49 from 20.2. But the spinners Ray Price and Gareth Batty were bowling in tandem by the 24th over and Vikram Solanki's decision paid off as Price deceived Marcus North and Chris Taylor into misjudgments to reduce Derbyshire to 121 for four before lunch. After a smart stumping to dismiss Taylor, the highly rated wicketkeeper Steven Davies dropped Ant Botha off Price's first ball of the afternoon session. Botha punished Davies by moving from four to 87 in a responsible innings during which he was largely happy to play second fiddle - both to the former Worcestershire wicketkeeper Jamie Pipe in a seventh-wicket stand of 83 and to Graham Wagg in adding a further 71. Wagg, whose left-arm swing bowling has caught the eye in recent weeks, underlined his all-round ability by dispatching Zaheer Khan's loosener with the second new ball towards the children's playground at long on, before Davies ended Derbyshire's innings by running three quarters of the way to fine leg to catch Ian Hunter's top-edged pull. All this and a model train hooting around the boating lake in the shadiest corner of the ground. Derbyshire were not the only ones happy to be back. 