 When you watch Kevin Pietersen play this shot (that shot) again, what do you think? If the answer is "I wonder what the potential ramifications of this will be for the laws governing LBWs and wides?" I'd suggest that you're doing something wrong. The suitable, natural, reaction to watching that clip is four letters long and too foul to use on this website outside of direct quotation. Experts make bad fans. They spend too much time considering the cinematography to follow the plot. Seeing Pietersen do something so impudently sublime, experts pondered whether or not the batsman had a duty to notify the umpire that he was about to change his stance. As the image was repeated and discussed, our focus strayed away from the man at the centre of the screen towards its significance for what was off camera. Unlike his first left-handed six in that innings, which had been memorably emulated by Paul Nixon and others, that shot (go on watch it again) was utterly unique. No one could remember seeing anything like it done before. That was the story, surely. So why were we so busy admiring the quality stitching on the bra? "Is it legal?" is, I suppose, a reasonable default reaction when you see something as clearly obscene as that stroke. Except that, in all the confusion, no one noticed the fact eventually pointed out by the MCC that "the off side of the striker's wicket is determined by the striker's stance at the moment the bowler starts his run-up". (Law 36.3 folks). And that, mercifully, should end five days' worth of groping speculation. Pietersen has smirked and shrugged his way through the whole affair, understandably amused by the stink that one shot has raised. Like Rene Higuita's scorpion kick, it looked so easy, but was clearly implausibly difficult. It's that exact combination which will lead to a run on sprained wrists across the country as we amateurs try to copy it. It was preposterously flamboyant. Pietersen has already invented the flamingo: this was a peacock. It was a welcome reminder of the sheer gross talent of the man, a reminder because over the last year or so Pietersen really appears to have changed as a person and a player far more than is acknowledged. It is not just the haircut, or even just the attitude, but his approach to the game. His 115 against New Zealand in the third Test at Trent Bridge was lazily hailed by headline writers as a "return to his swashbuckling best" though it was in fact his slowest Test century yet. It is difficult to imagine him now making categorical statements about how Shane Warne could "never bowl him around his legs". His pronouncements these days tend to be much milder in sentiment. On the Sunday of the Old Trafford Test, he was distinctly reticent about England's chance of completing their final day run chase. Simply put, he seems to have more respect for the game. Pietersen has always been unexpectedly mild-mannered in conversation, just as he is always surprisingly big in person. He simply isn't the man he was when the public first became familiar with him: he has been tempered by his marriage. The arrogant, absurdly gifted and slightly obnoxious star of the early years has become something quite different. He will never be able to escape the idea that his motivation to play for England is unauthentic. The more he has done to prove his patriotism the more sceptics have doubted it. Now he is being chided again for his sudden public keenness on Twenty20 cricket, which he once disparaged, even though that attitude is common to all cricketers. I've never seen Pietersen's personality captured in an interview. The closest anyone came in the early years of his career was in this piece by Rachel Cooke, which brilliantly ends with him munching a bag of his favourite sweets (given to him by his mother) until "his narrow mouth slowly fills with lilac foam." That line captured perfectly the vapid, frothy character concocted over his first years in the England team. But it was before his marriage, before the Ashes in Australia - two events which have reshaped his life. I wonder what the effects of playing in that 2006-07 Ashes side really were on Pietersen, given that he made his Test debut as just one component of one the most successful England sides in history. Pietersen is too media-savvy to be pinned down these days. His public persona is calmer, quieter, just as his batting is. He is harder to fathom. The question is, what kind of player is he growing into? Strange to ponder, but what kind of England captain would he make? Two years ago he would have seemed an inconceivable pick, but since then he has learned to carry a much larger part of the side's burden. A South African-born show-off with mercenary tendencies as England captain? It has happened before. Michael Vaughan will of course continue at least until the end of next summer's Ashes. After that, who knows? Paul Collingwood, Alastair Cook and Andrew Strauss will all be in the running, but what about KP? 