 Andrew "Freddie" Flintoff, 34, was born in Preston. He began playing cricket as a boy for Dutton Forshaw cricket club. In 1995, he made his first class debut for Lancashire, and in 1998 he made his Test debut for England, against South Africa. In 2005, he played a major role in regaining the Ashes from Australia and won the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award. Five years later, he was forced to retire from cricket due to a recurring knee injury. He has since made a career in television and radio. His series, Freddie Flintoff Goes Wild, is currently on Discovery. What is your greatest fear? The dark. What is your earliest memory? Playing my first game of cricket when I was six, with my brother who was nine. The under-14 side was short, so I stood in. What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? I can be a bit lazy. What was your most embarrassing moment? The pedalo incident in St Lucia. I tried to get into a pedalo very late at night but I couldn't manage it. I can laugh about it now, but it was embarrassing at the time. What is your most treasured possession? My first Lancashire under-11s cap. Where would you like to live? Preston – I live down south now. What would your super power be? To heal people. What do you most dislike about your appearance? I am not too bothered really – it's not a particularly good appearance, but it's me, isn't it? If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?Elvis. Who would play you in the film of your life? John Candy. What is your favourite book? To Kill A Mockingbird. What would be your fancy dress costume of choice? I'd love a Brian Potter outfit, off Phoenix Nights. What is your guiltiest pleasure? Coronation Street. What do you owe your parents? Everything. My dad played cricket locally on a Saturday afternoon and my mum used to take us to watch him. I started off in the pram and then played for the side – that's how it all started. What or who is the love of your life? My wife and kids. What is the worst job you've done? I've never had a bad job. I worked on the record counter at Woolworths in Preston, but I enjoyed that. What has been your biggest disappointment? Retiring at 31. When did you last cry, and why? A couple of weeks ago watching John Bishop's sport relief documentary – it was a real tear- jerker. What is the closest you've come to death? In Botswana I camped in the wild for a week with no food and no water – I had to fend for myself. I was just going to sleep when the lions came out and sat round my tent. I froze – I wasn't going anywhere! What single thing would improve the quality of your life? I don't know – I think I am lucky. I've got a decent life. What do you consider your greatest achievement? My kids. Professionally, the 2005 Ashes. Tell us a secret I am slightly ginger. • Follow Rosanna on Twitter at twitter.com/celebQandA 