 The World Twenty20 is already under way. There has been no shortage of tension, just an inevitable dearth of spectators in the vast concrete stadia of India as the first round of matches come to a conclusion. The number of empty seats was enhanced in Nagpur by the inability of fans to buy tickets at the gate, despite the vast majority of the seats inside the stadium being unoccupied and unsold. So far the northern hemisphere countries who played in rugby’s World Cup last October have done no better than they did then. Scotland, defeated by Afghanistan and Zimbabwe, are out. The two hammers of the Scots battled away on Saturday in Nagpur for the right to join group one, which is where England are placed. Ireland, after a surprise defeat to Oman, which was compounded by the rain of Dharamsala, are also heading home once they have completed their “dead” game with the Netherlands. This tournament has much to commend it. Unlike the 50-over World Cup there is not too much hanging around. If there are any dead games they come and go so quickly that no one notices. Hence the competition bristles with life and is hard to predict since T20 is the most volatile of formats. It matters to the fans (if they can get into the ground) and to the players. For the cricketers of all except England and Australia, who receive substantial salaries from their boards, the tournament also provides a shop window and a possible route to a lucrative contract with the T20 franchises around the globe, most notably those in India and Australia. Here there is a rare parallel with football. Players successful at international level can trigger the interest of wealthy clubs from Mumbai to Melbourne and thus the money flows (this does not quite apply to Middlesex as well, though recently the big names have also been attracted to a few weeks’ work in England in their off-season despite the absence of the “franchise” tag). So the bonus is that the T20 format has been prompting some of the best ball-players in New Zealand, South Africa and the Caribbean to reconsider cricket as a career. There is now the understanding that there are some big bucks to be made. Hence those countries have always been far more sanguine than the English about the expanding T20 balloon. Even so the ICC’s T20 tournament remains the only one that England have ever won (in 2010 in Barbados). There are two players on board who can offer first-hand knowledge of that triumph, the current captain, Eoin Morgan, and Paul Collingwood, who led the side in 2010 and has been added to the coaching staff. They may not dwell on the fact that in the Caribbean England failed to win either of their initial group matches except to emphasise that anything is possible in this competition. This time England are rightly portrayed as dangerous outsiders. They have talent and youth on their side rather than a battery of bowlers who are canny or world-class. They have just one man over 30 in their squad and that is Liam Plunkett, who was added only when Steven Finn, much to his dismay and anger, was deemed to be unfit for the tournament because of a calf strain. On Wednesday England take on West Indies, also dangerous outsiders in this format, but ancient ones. West Indies have eight men over 30 in their squad. India are favourites and they are not shy about picking old men either. In their squad creaks Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh and Ashish Nehra, the left-arm seamer who has been recalled after a five-year absence from international cricket. Meanwhile MS Dhoni craves one more World Cup trophy. South Africa and Australia, who have never won the title in this format, always look and sound dangerous. Meanwhile the New Zealand and Sri Lankan squads have an odd look to them since they lack the names of Brendon McCullum and Kumar Sangakkara. As a consequence the odds on Sri Lanka, despite being the holders, or New Zealand prevailing have lengthened. The beauty is that anyone can win if they manage to ride the crest of a wave for a week. The same has seldom applied to the women’s game. However, this time their competition is more intense and less predictable. There was a time when England’s women might be guaranteed to reach the final but that no longer applies. South Africa and West Indies keep improving; Australia will be the favourites; India are on home turf and New Zealand are always a threat. Thus it would be a welcome surprise to find both Morgan and Charlotte Edwards in Kolkata on 3 April. 