 Matthew Maynard has resigned as Glamorgan's director of cricket, claiming that his position has been made untenable. His decision follows the appointment against his wishes of Alviro Petersen to succeed Jamie Dalrymple as captain, and suggestions that the county are planning to appoint the former wicketkeeper Colin Metson above him as a new head of cricket, with Maynard relegated to a coaching role. "I have tendered my resignation with immediate effect," said Maynard, who led Glamorgan to the 1997 County Championship title during his 20 years on the staff as a player, and had been the director of cricket for three seasons after a previous role in Duncan Fletcher's England set-up. "I believe my position at the club has been made untenable with the recent situation." Metson was recently appointed to conduct a review of the county's cricketing operations by the chairman, Paul Russell, who was unhappy at the lack of progress in one-day cricket despite solid Championship performances which left the team only five points short of winning promotion. Now Metson is expected to take up the position of managing director of cricket, and Glamorgan will advertise for a new first‑team coach. According to a club statement: "After careful consideration, the committee, led by club chairman Paul Russell and chief executive Alan Hamer, have determined that the club can no longer accept the poor playing standard that has been the case for the last five years. "The first stage in the plan to reverse the playing fortunes of the club has seen the appointment of a new captain in Alviro Petersen. In addition, the club intends to recruit a managing director of cricket, whose appointment will be announced within the coming days. This new role, which is a significant appointment, will encompass all aspects of the management of cricket at the club. "Over the past few years, both Glamorgan and Welsh cricket have produced a number of talented young players and it will be an important part of the new director's role, that these cricketers achieve their maximum potential. The club has come to the decision that it can no longer rely upon signings from other counties to seek to achieve success. "Unfortunately, the club's current director of cricket Matthew Maynard, does not agree with this new strategy. Accordingly he has tendered his resignation with immediate effect, which the club has accepted with the greatest possible reluctance. Matthew's contribution to the club over many years, both as a player and as coach, has been immense." Maynard's departure raises further doubts about the future of Dalrymple and other players he has attracted to Cardiff such as Jim Allenby and Graham Wagg. Maynard's 21-year-old son Tom recently signed a new two-year contract with Glamorgan, and the veteran off-spinner Robert Croft was to join the coaching staff as part of his new two-year deal. 