 Any victory against Australia is to be celebrated, and Charlotte Edwards and her team did so without inhibition after their 22-run win. They were not alone. By the time the last Australian was run out, the stands here were almost full and, despite grey clouds and an inhospitable wind, there was a warm glow around the ground. This win means that England's women will contest the final of this quadrangular, which also features India and New Zealand, at the Rose Bowl at 3.10pm. There, the successful format will be repeated: the women will play before a men's Twenty20 (Hampshire against Sussex). On Sunday, Edwards's side play India at Taunton at 11am before Somerset's match with Glamorgan. They are not cowed by a heavy schedule. Saturday's was a vibrant performance. In the field, no one, including the veteran captain, remains still for a second. Their energy is infectious; so is their delight in each other's success. Indeed, the key to the win was their display in the field. There were three run-outs and several fine catches as well as three cheap wickets for Danielle Wyatt, a 20-year-old from Staffordshire, who bowls off-breaks. England's 136 for six was never going to guarantee victory. They relied on a wonderfully symmetrical innings from Edwards, who hit 43 from 43 balls in 43 minutes and was the highest scorer of the match. It is 15 years since Edwards first appeared for England but she still has the enthusiasm of a schoolgirl. When asked which form of the game she prefers – women play only one Test every two years now – Edwards replied: "I just love batting." Sarah Taylor, the wicketkeeper, hit a brisk 25, and this knock, combined with her hand in those three run-outs plus a stumping and a catch, earned her the player of the match award. Edwards, who would have bowled first had she won the toss, was happy with 136 but admitted she was nervous with eight overs to go. At that stage, the Australians were on target with just four wickets down and Meghann Lanning was sweeping all England's bowlers, whatever they propelled, unerringly to the leg-side boundary. England relied mostly on spinners, with Holly Colvin, the effervescent left-armer, renewing her partnership with off-spinner, Laura Marsh, who gained her one wicket from a massive change of pace. The dangerous Jessica Cameron was lbw and seemed to have played her shot several seconds before the ball arrived. Even so, Australia were homing in on victory until Lanning was caught behind to become Wyatt's first victim. Now England were irresistible. Their fielding was well nigh flawless; their speed across the turf and the power and accuracy of the throws from the boundary were constantly impressive. Edwards, patrolling at mid-wicket, channelled all that exuberance in the right direction and calmly perpetrated one of those run-outs. Once more there was panic in the Australian ranks. England endured a nightmare against Sri Lanka, losing by nine wickets with 16 balls to spare in first international T20 international 