 Durham's Graham Onions bowled three spells but remained wicketless on the second day of the County Championship Division One match against Lancashire at Old Trafford. The England seamerOnions undertook the shift expected of international seamers as he attempted to prove his form in advance of next week's deciding fifth Test against Australia, but finished the day with nought for 46 from 19 overs having found it difficult to find consistent line and length on the Old Trafford wicket. The fast bowler was upstaged by Ian Blackwell, who took a season's-best six for 85, five of them lbws, as Lancashire ended the day on 252 for nine, trailing the championship leaders by 18 runs. However, Blackwell's persistence and accuracy was matched by the artistry and class of VVS Laxman, whose 87 was at the heart of 's response to Durham's first-innings 270.It was Laxman who helped Mal Loye repair the Lancashire innings after the home side had lost two wickets for 16 runs in the first eight overs of the morning. The calmness of their partnership was only punctured when Loye was struck a fearful blow in the box by Onions. By lunch the pair had taken the total to 80 and their partnership to 65 with Loye reaching his third successive championship half-century with a massively authoritative pull for six off a Liam Plunkett long-hop. But the complexion of the match was transformed in an eight-over period in mid-afternoon as Lancashire lost four wickets for 22 Loye, who made a 101-ball 60, was the first to depart when he top-edged a pull off a short delivery from Blackwell which turned and bounced more than the batsman expected. The decline of the Lancashire innings accelerated when Blackwell had three lbw appeals answered in the affirmative by Neil Mallender in the space of five balls. Mark Chilton played no shot, Francois du Plessis went back but was beaten by a quicker one and Luke Sutton attempted a sweep. Of the three, only du Plessis seemed to have nothing to grumble about. On 123 for six, Lancashire were in danger of conceding a cripplingly large first-innings lead but Laxman's strokeplay remained both tranquil and assertive as he added 47 runs with Kyle Hogg before a belated tea was taken. Laxman and Hogg had taken their vital seventh-wicket partnership to 84 when the Hyderabad captain swatted medium-pacer Dale Benkenstein to mid-wicket where Plunkett leapt to his left take an outstanding one-handed catch. Hogg and Newby became Blackwell and Mallender's fourth and fifth lbw victims of the day as Lancashire appeared likely to begin the second half of this absorbing game well in arrears, but the debutant Tom Lungley and England Lions left-arm spinner Gary Keedy had taken their last-wicket partnership to 39 by the close. 