 If England chose their captains for labrador-like openness, today would be the start of a long and glorious reign for Kevin Pietersen. As he spoke on the eve of his first match as stand-in leader for the banned Paul Collingwood, the man many thought should never lead his adopted nation offered a mixture of wide-eyed enthusiasm, a collective mea culpa on behalf of the dressing-room for Collingwood's four-game ban and a joke about smoking a cigar at mid-off if everyone does his job properly in today's must-win finale against New Zealand. Other than that, it could have been Graham Gooch in his po-faced prime. The record books suggest Pietersen's captaincy experience is limited to a single second XI game for Nottinghamshire six years ago, rather than the "zilch" he suggested. Yet such is the paucity of alternatives in the squad that no one could argue with Daniel Vettori's assessment that he "seemed like the logical choice". Pietersen's own view is not a million miles away. "I'm going to be calm, pretty chilled and allow my instincts, my gut feeling and the brain that I've been given to work," he said. "Tactically I think I'm pretty sound and aware of certain situations. But not everyone's perfect. It'll be trial and error and hopefully there will be a lot more positives than negatives." It seems typical of the Pietersen story - more soap-opera than morality tale - that he is assuming the leadership at this especially fraught moment. Not only will his players' behaviour come under scrutiny today following the acrimonious run-out of Grant Elliott at The Oval on Wednesday but England need to win to avoid a second successive one-day series defeat by New Zealand. And, according to Pietersen, they owe it to Collingwood to make it 2-2. "We hold ourselves responsible," he said, referring ostensibly to the slow over-rate that led to his ban but hinting that the captain was left to his own devices over the decision not to recall Elliott after Ryan Sidebottom collided with him. "We should have helped our skipper out. There's no way Colly should have gone down. We had a real good team chat and identified areas we need to improve and areas we can help the skipper. The key to being a successful skipper is making sure your players want to help you out all the time. If we can do that, I'll be smoking a cigar at mid-off." That would be grist to the mill for those who regard Pietersen as a brash arriviste but he made the firm point that he would spend the rest of his days in a country he first represented in an easily forgotten one-day series in Zimbabwe almost four years ago. "I still get called names," he said. "At The Oval the other day when I was fielding on the boundary there were a lot of South Africans in the crowd hammering me. But that's just what I have to deal with. People can see how passionate I am, how willing I am to do well and how much I want to win games for England." If Pietersen is to get off to a winning start, he has quite a hole to fill. Not only has Collingwood led the one-day side in each of the last five series - plus the World Twenty20 - since Michael Vaughan stepped down last summer but he is also England's most experienced one-day player and their foremost all-rounder in the continued absence of Andrew Flintoff. England could opt for Dimitri Mascarenhas as a like-for-like replacement or strengthen the batting by drafting in either Alastair Cook, fit again after a shoulder injury, or Andrew Strauss, who has been called into the squad as cover. Whatever the choice, New Zealand sense an opening as they aim to finish their tour with a win to offset the 2-0 defeat in the Tests. Vettori spoke of the "gaping hole" left by Collingwood and added: "In our dressing-room we think he's the best player because of the all-round capabilities he brings. Pietersen has huge shoes to fill but he's the sort of guy who seems to demand that sort of attention." Vettori echoed Pietersen in playing down the impact of Wednesday's controversy but reiterated his apology for the heated scenes on the New Zealand balcony. "Anyone who knows me knows I'm not an angry person, so that was a first for me. I look back and I was a little bit embarrassed by my actions but the fact that both captains apologised and moved on means we can quickly get on with things." How quickly Pietersen allows New Zealand to get on with things today will decide the fate of this controversial series. England (from): KP Pietersen*, IR Bell, AN Cook, LJ Wright, RS Bopara, OA Shah, AJ Strauss, TR Ambrose†, GP Swann, SC Broad, CT Tremlett, JM Anderson, RJ Sidebottom, AD Mascarenhas.  New Zealand (from): DL Vettori*, JM How, BB McCullum†, RPL Taylor, SB Styris, DR Flynn, GD Elliott, G Hopkins, KD Mills, TG Southee, MR Gillespie, MJ Mason, JDP Oram, JS Patel.  Umpires SJ Davis and NJ Llong. Kevin Pietersen's only previous experience of the responsibilities of captaincy of a senior team came in leading a Nottinghamshire second XI in a one-day match in 2002. The good news for England followers, though, is that he hit a century in a successful run chase as Notts beat Lancashire by three wickets under his stewardship. The 22-year-old Pietersen's astute use of his bowlers led to three of them taking three wickets each. The other Lancashire wicket to fall in their innings of 231 all out - that of Graham Lloyd - was picked up by the occasional twirling off-spin of Pietersen himself, as he took one for 24 in five overs. The South African born batsman top-scored with 113 as Nottinghamshire overhauled their target with 12 overs to spare. Michael Smethurst claimed Pietersen's wicket - one of four the medium-pacer took in the match - in what would prove to be his final season in first-class cricket. Edward Gibbes 