 Preamble Here we go again (I had less time for this preamble than the one at the start of the afternoon session). 60th over: England 201-1 (Trescothick 95, Cook 46) Brilliant fielding from Dilshan - far better than his pitifuly dibbly-dobbly bowling - as he tips the ball around the post with his right hand to turn four runs into two. "To bring the amusing names combinations back to the game at hand, 'The bowler is Holding, the batsman's Willey' must be the funniest utterance ever heard during cricket commentary," says Anthony Hulse, whose punctuation was better than most of the emails I received with the same example, hence his inclusion. 61st over: England 206-1 (Trescothick 100, Cook 46) Tresco picks Murali's doosra and strokes it through the covers to move to 99. And then he flays one the other side of the ground to complete his 14th Test hundred. A super knock, one that could be at least doubled on this pitch and against this attack. "This question doesn't concern the Test, but I want to know if you have ever played against anyone who has or has gone on to play first class cricket?" asks Fred Rylah. "If so, how did you get on?" I've played against Tim Phillips, Andrew McGarry and Graham Napier, who have all been on Essex's books over the last few years. Sadly my combined number of runs against the three of them was as many wickets as Dilshan is going to pick up in this Test. I did once play a reverse-hook though. 62nd over: England 210-1 (Trescothick 106, Cook 46) Tresco must have had some Weetabix for tea, because he's come out like a man on a not-in-any-way impossible mission. Another big hit brings four more runs to his and England's score. "'Tipping one round the post?'" says Tim Sowula, taking issue with my commentary. "What's that supposed to mean? Last time I checked there were no 'posts' on a cricket pitch. Or have Sky decided to innovate their coverage by sticking posts in the ground in random places, hitting one gets four? What next? Andy Townsend commentating from the boundary?" 63rd over WICKET! Trescothick c Jayawardene b Muralitharan 106 (England 213-2) The same combination that did for Strauss accounts for Trescothick too. The batter's didn't quite get his foot to the pitch of the ball, and his prod was gobbled up by Jayawardene at first slip. "I remember John Arlott chuckling over 'Rice bowls and Paddy fields'," says Richard Hay, as do many of the rest of you. 64th over: England 214-2 (Pietersen 0, Cook 48) Vaas was clearly given a bit of a ticking-off at tea by coach Tom Moody, because he's now bowling a completely different line - namely, on off stump, rather than three feet outside it. KP faces his first few balls, casually blocking them, though it's clear he's desperate to have a massive hoik sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, here's Stuart Youngs, who claims that not only did he used to have his own team but that he once played against Tim Phillips too: "Can anyone else claim being thiiiiiiiiiis close to running Phillips out in the first over of the day?" Certainly not me. 65th over: England 218-2 (Pietersen 0, Cook 52) Ali Cook brings up his fifty with a well-controlled pull shot. His innings has been typically accomplished and compact. He'll surely hang onto his place in the team for this winter's Ashes. Meanwhile, here's David Nickless, who clearly doesn't mind abbreviating his name to his initials, talking about himself in the third person, and admitting that he went to Eton in front of literally the tens of over-by-over readers who haven't already left the office for the pub/park. "DN was checking the Warwickshire score and as well as his old chum and school friend (from a well-know English public school) Alex Loudon (he of the "doosra") playing for Warwickshire, in the opposing Hampshire side is a certain James Bruce, who I believe also attended said public school and was indeed a contempory of both Loudon and DN. In fact, DN has faced both the cunning off-spings of Loudon (an England spinner) and a James Bruce bouncer." 66th over: England 222-2 (Pietersen 4, Cook 52) After KP gets off the mark with a glorious cover drive, Vaas diverts your correspondent's attention away from the emails briefly by shrieking and jumping around as if he's been set on fire. It transpires that he was actually appealing for lbw against Pietersen, and given that it pitched in line with the stumps and was swinging towards leg stump, he may have had a case. "An amusing one from Brian Johnstone," chips in Ray Allger. "'The bowler is running in with two short legs, one of them square.'" 67th over: England 229-2 (Pietersen 4, Cook 59) Cook plays a cut shot against Murali so late it makes this update look punctual. And it's worth four runs. "If Sky did put Andy Townsend on the boundary, hitting him should be worth 50 runs, at least," says Ian Medlicott. 68th over: England 233-2 (Pietersen 4, Cook 63) Ali Cook seems to have all the shots. His latest exhibit is a backfoot drive straight back past the bowler for yet another boundary. "When at Bradford Grammar School I played against Michael Vaughan who was plying for MCC," says Charles McIntosh. "I opened the bowling had him in trouble early on with my brisk outswingers delivered from a classicly high action. After an over though he found his form though and brought his hundred up 20 minutes before lunch." 69th over: England 238-2 (Pietersen 9, Cook 63) Not content with watching his partner (no, not Caprice, or Jessica from Liberty X) hog the limelight, KP plays his part in this run-scoring process by thwacking a full Muralitharan delivery to cow corner. "Feels as though we're in a redux of Private Eye's Colemanballs here," writes Julian Fainlight. "Arlottballs? Johnstoneballs? Adamsonballs?" 70th over: England 244-2 (Pietersen 15, Cook 63) Kulasekera replaces Vaas, which means just one thing: more runs for England. In particular, Pietersen, who plays a slightly mistimed on-drive which rolls down the Lord's slope for four. "Just a simple question," writes Thomas Whiteley. "What would/will have been a par score on this wicket for the first day?" England will have set out to score about 300 this morning, and not lose more than four or maybe five wickets. With 20 overs remaining, they're easily on course for that. 71st over: England 244-2 (Pietersen 15, Cook 63) A rare Sri Lanka maiden from the hand of Murali, of course. "Gus Fraser over on TMS has just referred to Pietersen 'putting his booming bottom hand in and milking Vaas'," emails David Horn. "Is that legal?" 72nd over: England 244-2 (Pietersen 15, Cook 63) Typical - you wait for one maiden, and two come along at once. Actually, that's not that typical is it? Anyway, six scoreless balls from Kulasekera here. "Can I tout myself to OBO readers, I need a job!" says Ben Hendy, who doesn't get off to a good start by mistaking the OBO for GU's Jobs website. "I was offered an NHS secondment but the Trust I work for turned it down. It would only have represented a 75% pay increase so I'm not too $%&*ed off, but I am now looking for something new. I'm open to offers (read that how you like), but currently work in stats, analysis and service improvement." 73rd over: England 244-2 (Pietersen 15, Cook 63) And another maiden. This is much better from the tourists - if they can stop KP scoring, like a sloppy doctor, he'll lose his patience soon. "Can you let us know when close of play is?" request Tom Cole. "I want to know if it's worth leaving work early and trying to catch the end of the day in the pub." The official close of play is 6pm, but they'll play until 90 overs are bowled. However, the Sri Lankans are racing through the overs, so we'll probably finish at about 6.15pm. 74th over: England 246-2 (Pietersen 16, Cook 64) At last, some runs. Pietersen starts the onslaught by playing one wide of mid-on for a single, and then Cook follows suit by helping himself to an easy run. "I note shameless job blagger Ben Hendy includes in his makeshift CV his abilities when it comes to 'service improvement'," says Mark Butt. "Maybe he should give The Future of British Tennis Andy Murray a ring, he's looking for a new coach." 75th over: England 246-2 (Pietersen 16, Cook 64) I can't believe how quickly Murali gets through his overs. The Sri Lankans are actually bowling at an average of 15 overs an hour today, which may be the ICC's target for Test cricket, but is rarely adhered to. "Schoolboy error there from Ben Hendy," observes Paul Birrell. "Failing to stipulate a desired starting date after the World Cup - plain naive. Who'd employ someone capable of that kind of oversight?" 76th over: England 248-2 (Pietersen 17, Cook 65) KP plays a shot so extravagant that my housemate feels the need to phone me to tell me about it. Which was just as well, because I completely missed it. Apparently he wandered across his stumps in a pre-meditated move, tried to waft it through midwicket, but instead knocked it back to the bowler via his leading edge. So says my housemate anyway. "Surely advertising yourself as someone who spends all day reading OBO instead of doing stats isn't the best way to snag potential employers?" says Cecile Ithurbide, failing to catch on. Then the penny drops: "Unless they too spend the summer reading OBO. Oh." 77th over: England 254-2 (Pietersen 21, Cook 67) With any luck Sri Lanka will take the new ball in three overs' time, saving me the extreme difficulty of having to keep pace with Murali. It's a fair possibility because he's starting to tire after 25 overs of work today - in this over the England batsmen manage four scoring shots. "Can you tell Ben Hendy that such appeals for a job don't pay off," says Richard Clarke, who can do so himself quite frankly. "My similar attempt during the winter Tests just led to i) Snide sniping about my Oxford education from fellow OBOers; ii) The cricket following masses at my firm becoming aware that I hate my job; and iii) Expressing myself in list form." 78th over: England 263-2 (Pietersen 22, Cook 75) Cook brings up the fifty partnership with two more well-executed fours: first guiding a wide one from Kulasekera to the vacant third man boundary, then stroking one to the opposite end of the ground. Here's Simon Lindsley: "Blowers says 'Cook is as good as a cucumber' on TMS. For what? Pimms or a salad?" 79th over: England 271-2 (Pietersen 30, Cook 75) This is brilliant stuff from KP. After cutting a short and wide one past point, he then takes two steps down the track and plants Murali's next delivery into the advertising hoardings via a bounce or two. "Just thinking ahead," begins the visionary Julian Dent. "If Cook scores a few big ones whilst Vaughan is out of the line-up, who'll have to make way to let the England skipper back in?" Paul Collingwood, I should think, Julian. But then would Cook have to drop down even further to No5? Tricky one. 80th over: England 273-2 (Pietersen 31, Cook 76) Maharoof (hitherto 13 overs for 68 runs) returns to waste another few overs. Cook and Pietersen play it cool for now, picking up an easy single each. "Can you tell Ben Hendy his mum is reading all this," says Mary Deeks, who presumably is Ben Hendy's mum. "And wondering why he isn't working? In fact, why aren't the lot of you working?" I am, Ms Deeks. Sort of. 81st over: England 275-2 (Pietersen 32, Cook 77) Murali soldiers on, though "third man" Nasser Hussain thinks the new ball should be taken to give him a break. 82nd over: England 286-2 (Pietersen 33, Cook 86) And guess what, Jayawardene has followed Nasser's advice, and tossed a fresh new nugget to Maharoof. Umpire Aleem Dar screams "no ball", possibly confusing the young Sri Lankan, who thought it was a "new ball" he was bowling with. A superb Cook cover drive then bisects two Sri Lankan fielders - these two batsmen can hold their ground until the end of play, England will be in a great position to press on and score 500 tomorrow. "With an imminent England batting collapse inevitably just around the corner," says Tom Gucht, wisely contradicting me completely, "I'm intrigued to know who is likely to open the England bowling. Is Freddie going to promote himself to new ball duty or will he show faith with his Lancastrian comrade Mahmood?" Well it will obviously be Hoggard at one end. And because England are going to have a pretty big total to defend, I'd be surprised if Flintoff doesn't give the youngster the first chance to strike. 83rd over: England 291-2 (Pietersen 38, Cook 86) Vaas's turn to try his luck with the new ball, but his first attempt is met by a solid square-leg prod by KP which bounds through the outfield. Meanwhile, here's a valid question from Stuart Orford: "Why isn't Ms Deeks working?" While Howard Waddington adds: "I'd like to personally congratulate Ben Hendy for being the first person to be [insert your own word for "being told off" here] by their mother for reading to much OBO. Quality stuff!" 84th over: England 296-2 (Pietersen 43, Cook 86) KP is starting to free his hands now, taking advantage of bowling that is looser than my description of events. This time he swings furiously at a wide one from Maharoof, sending it to the deep cover boundary. "Maybe what Blowers is trying to say, is that Cook is like a cucumber," says Gavin Hudson. "ie goes very well with (Pimms) No5. Neatly summarising two conversations at once, I think." 85th over: England 306-2 (Pietersen 53, Cook 86) Without wishing to sound repetitive, Pietersen plays another glorious shot, which just about suits the mood of the day for England. Without wishing to sound repetitive, Pietersen plays another glorious shot, which just about suits the mood of the day for England. The second brings up a brilliant fifty. "At the risk of plagiarising myself (the same observation got me an OBO mention during the winter), no-one will make way for Vaughan if Cook keeps it up (Julian Dent, over 79). Obviously Cook himself will be captain. Captain Cook. In Australia. Hmm? Oh, come on." 86th over: WICKET! c Sangakarra b Maharoof 89 (England 312-3) Agony for Sri Lanka as Mubarak, at cover, takes a great catch flying to his right - but his delight is cut short when he realises Pietersen is staying put due to umpire Aleem Dar's outstretched arm. No ball! Moments later, though, Sri Lanka's celebrations are reignited when Cook plays a loose shot at a wide one, and his faint nick is taken comfortably by Sangakarra. A lucky reprieve for Maharoof. "I hate to do this (as its not in my nature to tell tales)," says tell-tale Damian Crowe. "However, after suffering his endless gloating for much of the afternoon, will you please tell the world that Mr Van Oorschot is not the skipper of his team (over 56) and has no bearing on decision to bat or bowl this weekend. Please do this as I'm sure his mother will be reading as will his brothers!" 87th over: England 313-3 (Pietersen 53, Hoggard 0) Enter nightwatchman Matthew Hoggard. Given England's dominant position, it's seems a little unnecessary to put England's finest Yorkshireman (sorry Geoffrey B) into bat now, as it's more likely he'll stem their momentum tomorrow morning than score a double hundred like Jason Gillespie. "Mary (over 80) should know that some of us start work early so we can knock off early too, and catch up with the cricket via OBO while listening to the TMS," says John Starbuck, who doth protest too much methinks. "This makes us extremely smug." 88th over: England 317-3 (Pietersen 54, Hoggard 1) Pietersen takes one run off Maharoof's (even) slower ball, giving the strike to Hoggard. Rather than demonstrating his textbook forward defense as usual, the Hogg plays its leg-side variation to pick up his first run in front of square leg. "My parents have been happily married since August 19**," says William Cook. "Nine months after they selfishly celebrated their third wedding anniversary together my sister arrived. Here we are ** years later and my sister is having her birthday celebration this Saturday afternoon, which means not only will I miss the FA Cup final but also an entire day's play to get to and from her house. Has anyone else's parents ever done anything as selfish as that? Some how I doubt it." 89th over: England 318-3 (Pietersen 54, Hoggard ) Hoggard performs the nightwatchman's role to perfection, defending the first five balls, then playing a more expansive shot to - as his name would suggest - hog the strike for the 90th and last over too. "Are you lot still here?" says Tom Chivers, though given how the emails have dried up in the last half an hour, it would seem not. "Look, the Ashes finished nine months ago. The whole cricket thing's so 2005. The word on the street is that Eton Fives will be the cognoscenti's outdoor pursuit for Summer '06. Get with, as they say, the programme." 90th over: England 318-3 (Pietersen 54, Hoggard 2) Rather than give Murali one last over, Jayawardene allows Kulasekera to trundle in instead. The outcome of his tussle with Hoggard is a predictable maiden. And that's stumps. It's not quite been the Ashes, but it's been a pretty good start to the summer for England. Thanks for your multitude of emails, sorry I couldn't use them all, Mike. 