 A David Warner masterclass enabled Australia to secure their first unblemished summer in nine years with an emphatic eight-wicket victory over the West Indies at the SCG. Chasing a modest 139 for victory, the explosive left-hander blasted seven sixes and five fours on his way to 67 off 29 deliveries in front of an appreciative crowd of 31,639. Having reached his half-century in a personal best of 18 balls, Warner eventually departed to a standing ovation after holing out at mid-on off the bowling of Nikita Miller. Shane Watson, with 62 not out off 33 balls, capped a brilliant personal summer in all three forms of the game, smashing the hosts to victory with eight overs to spare. Debutant Dan Christian (four) struck the winning runs to cap a dream debut which saw him also claim two for 29 with the ball. Warner started with a bang, hitting three sixes and a boundary off Kemar Roach's opening over. The crowd favourite was light-heartedly booed by the SCG faithful for playing a forward-defensive stroke with the next ball he faced, but the powerful left-hander was quickly back in favour when he hit Darren Sammy over the mid-on fence. Hitting comfortably all round the ground, it was enough to send Chris Gayle's men home without a victory on Australian soil this summer. Earlier, consecutive sixes from Sammy to end the innings helped the West Indies post 138 for seven off their 20 overs in conditions conducive for batting. Sammy, who finished with 26 not out, and Narsingh Deonarine (36 not out) saved the day for the visitors with an unbeaten 40-run stand after the top order failed to produce. Christian bore the brunt of the late onslaught, conceding 18 runs off the final over, while Ryan Harris (two for 27) set the tone at the top of the innings to finish the pick of the Australian bowlers. Gayle's miserable run with the bat continued when he picked out Steve Smith at fine leg to give Harris his first wicket of the innings. The Windies skipper was uncharacteristically subdued, managing two runs from the first 11 balls he faced, before smashing 10 runs off two deliveries including a massive six over the square-leg fence. But Harris soon had his man when Gayle skied an ambitious pull shot straight down Smith's throat to depart for an unconvincing 12 off 14 balls in the fourth over. The decision to elevate Runako Morton up the order backfired when the right-hander edged Harris to Cameron White at second slip for a golden duck. Kieron Pollard was unable to save the day when he was bowled by Watson for five, and when Wavell Hinds ran himself out without scoring the Windies were in a deep hole. The predicament worsened when all-rounder Steve Smith took a spectacular overhead catch on the square-leg boundary to end Travis Dowlin's (31) resistance and hand Christian his first international wicket. Australia have been relentless across six Tests, 10 one-day internationals and three Twenty20s against the West Indies and Pakistan in the 2009/10 season – winning them all except for one Test against West Indies, which was a draw and one ODI against the same nation, which was washed out. 