 10.57am: Your top team today: Andy Wilson is at Notts v Lancs and George Dobell will be watching Warwickshire v Somerset. A preview of all the counties can be found here. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Video highlights are here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two.  Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Andy Bull, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield 11.05am: There are only a couple of Championship games still going today, and one of those won't last long, writes Andy Wilson. Even our pessimistic Warwickshire regulars must be fairly confident of victory, as Somerset will resume their second innings at Edgbaston with a lead of 5, and only one wicket remaining.  But here at Trent Bridge the match is much more intriguingly poised. Lancashire will resume on 32 without loss, needing another 205 to complete their sixth win of the season which would lift them back within touching distance of Durham before the counties meet at Aigburth next week. That might not sound like the most daunting target, but this is a difficult pitch with increasingly unpredictable bounce. I'd make Notts slight favourites.  Lancashire have already lost one of the six bonus points they have gained as punishment for their slow over rate. Notts have made a change to their team after Samit Patel's departure on England duty. He has been replaced by Sam Wood, an England under-19s opener who apparently bowls a bit of off spin. But it's the seamers - Luke Fletcher, Charlie Shreck, Andre Adams, Paul Franks and possibly Steven Mullaney - who will hold the key. 11.12am: Morning from Edgbaston, where it surely won't take Warwickshire long to wrap-up their fifth Championship victory of the season, writes George Dobell. Play has started on time, despite a little bit of rain in the air, and Somerset have extended their lead to nine. Nick Compton is now within 16 of his second Championship century of the season.  Perhaps the most impressive aspect of yesterday's play from a Warwickshire perspective was the bowling of Rikki Clarke. England's long-forgotten all-rounder bowled with impressive pace and has now taken his haul of Championship wickets to 29 this season at just under 22 apiece. If he could only find some form with the bat - he has a top score of just 50 - maybe, just maybe, he could interest the England selectors once more. 11.32am: Somerset's innings is over, writes George Dobell. Nick Compton, left with the hapless Charl Willoughby for company (is there a worse batsman than him in world cricket? Maybe only Chris Martin compares) was caught on the long-on boundary as he tried to thump Rikki Clarke over the top. Compton made 95 and Clarke finishes with four for 34. So, Warwickshire need 23 to win. I know it's an unpredictable game and all that, but my money's on the hosts. 12.03pm: This won't take long, writes George Dobell. Varun Chopra has punished the first deliveries from both opening bowlers - Willoughby and Peter Trego - for boundaries. Perhaps he's made plans for lunch. With Craig Kieswetter absent on England duty, Marcus Trescothick is keeping wicket for Somerset. They had planned to call-up Jos Buttler, but perhaps felt his time was better spent in second XIcricket. 12.15pm: To no one's surprise Warwickshire have beaten Somerset by 10 wickets. More details to follow. 1.19pm: Stephen Moore has not made the impact that he or Lancashire would have anticipated since moving north from Worcestershire the winter before last, writes Andy Wilson. But he is well on the way to making amends for all that, having batted throughout the morning session here at Trent Bridge to reach an unbeaten 57, and to steer his county almost halfway towards their tricky victory target of 237. They are 115 for two at lunch, having lost Paul Horton and Karl Brown to Charlie Shreck who has been the pick of the Notts attack. Moore's innings has been all the more impressive after he was hit twice on the hand late yesterday, requiring treatment on each occasion. But he does not seem to have been adversely affected, playing with admirable patience and restraint - although he did climb into a rare half volley from Paul Franks with relish just before the interval. The pitch remains unreliable but there hasn't been anything too horrendous this morning. It has remained cloudy and breezy, but there's no sign of any rain yet. The game is still in the balance, but Lancashire may just have squeezed Notts out of the box seat. 3.19pm: Here's George Dobell's match report for Warwickshire's scalping of Somerset. 3.34pm: Lancashire have completed what feels like a very significant win, their sixth in eight Championship matches this season, writes Andy Wilson. They reached a tricky target of 237 for the loss of only four wickets, mainly thanks to the opener Stephen Moore who hit the winning runs to end unbeaten on a superb 124. They take 21 points from the game, having had one deducted for a slow over rate, which brings them within seven points of the First Division leaders Durham with a game in hand - setting up next week's meeting between the counties in Liverpool beautifully. It's a different story for Notts, who have now suffered four consecutive defeats and are looking down towards the relegation zone rather than retaining realistic hopes of retaining their title. Their chances in this game disappeared when Riki Wessels dropped Moore at third man off Paul Franks shortly after lunch. That could have left Lancashire 116 for three and set a few nerves jangling. Instead Moore and Mark Chilton stepped up the pace with a series of boundaries, and suddenly victory was in sight. 