 In the early part of his career Dale Benkenstein was briefly touted as South Africa's next captain after Hansie Cronje. A batting average of less than 18 in 23 one-day internationals - the most recent in 2002 - put paid to that, but leadership still comes naturally and yesterday he hit an unbeaten 144 to put Durham on top and both sides' first-day struggles into perspective. It was captaincy by example rather than anything out of the Mike Brearley manual, but this game was crying out for direction, and - with the help of his tailenders - Benkenstein provided it, batting for five minutes short of six hours to turn a miserable 62 for five into a potentially match-winning 359. Durham won't mind that he is a Kolpak signing, and an ageing one at that - he turns 32 today. Victory here and their first season in the top flight since 2000 will begin to take on a healthy sheen. They still trailed Warwickshire by 76 when Phil Mustard drove Dougie Brown to mid-off to make it 132 for six, but Benkenstein teamed up with Ottis Gibson, still buzzing after taking four wickets on Wednesday, to add a club-record 148 for the seventh wicket on a pitch that had lost its early zing. Gibson departed for 81 after nibbling Jim Troughton's left-arm spin to the keeper, and Ian Bell quickly yorked Callum Thorp, only for Graham Onions to rub Warwickshire's noses in it with a career-best 40. James Anyon hit the stumps twice in two balls, but it was a rare moment of incision on a day when Warwickshire's bowling was a mixture of the so-so, the harmless and the downright innocuous. Not the least guilty was Alex Loudon, who was named in England's one-day squad yesterday mainly because he possesses a doosra and can bat. Loudon made very occasional use of the delivery and even had Gibson dropped at slip on 41, but on this evidence Sri Lanka won't be overly concerned. Faced with a first-innings deficit of 151, Warwickshire lost Mark Wagh to an Onions delivery that kept low and Bell to a mistimed drive, from the bowling of Gibson to mid-off, just before the close. In between Durham did their best to be gentle. Nick Knight was dropped in the slips on 15 and 21, and Bell was missed at square-leg on four. The bowler each time was Onions, which rather ruined the spectator's joke about the spring in his step. 