 It was all very confusing. Kevin Mitchell's Gabba strip was not one on which an international side should be dismissed for under 200, yet, for just over seven sessions of the First Test, 30 wickets fell at a rate of one every six overs or so. Neither, however, was it the sort on which batsmen should be able to score runs with impunity but somehow Geoff Marsh and Mark Taylor were able to take Australia to victory without a hint of trouble.   Before the game, Mitchell had promised a pitch that would reward the good players and penalise bad: a convoluted way of saying he had made a good wicket. But the pitch that was unveiled to Allan Border and Allan Lamb on the morning of the first day was not the one that had been put to bed the previous night. Then, it had been yellowish and just about as dry as a sheet of sandpaper.   Border, fighting against a tradition that had seen nine of the last 10 victories at The Gabba go to the side batting second, had decided it was good enough to bat first. But a humid night under the covers and a tropical storm put paid to that. In the morning, said Border, it looked greasy suddenly the batting option was not on and the toss appeared to have become crucial. Border won it.   But it did not, in the end, decide the game. England managed a lead of 42 on the first innings and, with the pitch improving by the hour, should have been able to build on that and present Australia with a stiff task. Instead, the batsmen capitulated to Terry Alderman.   Border had expected to be chasing at least 200, so a target of 157 represented salvation, and the Australians treated the task as such. Suddenly the game became easy again. Much of cricket , like all sports, is in the mind.   On the third day England wobbled and went. Well as Alderman bowled, and superbly as Cantrell caught Border reckons the substitute fielder has dropped one catch in the past five years, so they knew what they were doing putting him on the field England's batsmen displayed little of the fight or technique that came out in the Caribbean or at home last summer.   It was not a forgiving match for batsmen. Scarcely a ball that went in the air eluded a fielder, and when it did so only Border himself, late on the second evening, put the offered catch down. The fielding on both sides had been exemplary: England's, in Australia's first innings, was quite the best anyone could remember.   But that does not excuse England's batting display. Lamb shouldered much of the blame afterwards but it went deeper than that. "We have to concentrate on getting in and staying in," was Micky Stewart's assessment. That may sound trite, but it is hard to think what else he could have said under the circumstances.   Perhaps, in the end, the whole thing boils down to good, old-fashioned bottle. For two days of the three, England held the upper hand: when it really mattered they were found wanting. When they had been dismissed so lamentably in the second innings they were nonetheless still in with a chance, had they but known it, and one felt that Brearley, say, or Fletcher or Gooch would have milked it for all it was worth and made Australia fight for each and every run.   Perhaps, as Brearley once did, they might have instilled in their opponents the sort of self-doubt that could be exploited in the future: remember how Kim Hughes's side froze solid chasing a paltry total on a good Edgbaston pitch in 1981? Instead the team discipline collapsed, and if Lamb takes responsibility for the batting failure he must also accept it for that.   Graham Gooch, though, reckons there is little point in spending too much time on regrets: there is a lot more cricket to be played before the second Test begins in Melbourne on Boxing Day, and much of it is one-day stuff. That, though a fact of modern life, is regrettable because cricket teams need continuity of purpose and now England's priorities will be altered just when they needed to concentrate on winning the Ashes .   It will also be detrimental to the marketing men. The game in Australia has been sold almost exclusively on the one-day game but for once there has been a drive to Test cricket and it paid off in Brisbane with record crowds for the three days. That is encouraging, but now attention needs focusing rather than diverting.   There were other plusses for England apart from their fielding. Mike Atherton, for example, looks capable of making a real impact. Certainly it was no disgrace to lose his wicket to the sort of ball Alderman found for him: rather it was a badge to be worn with pride and talked about to his grandchildren. His concentration and technique drew admiration from Australians, and his will be a prized wicket.   David Gower, purely because he is Gower, made more runs than anyone else in the game and no one can understand why: that is certainly positive, for you cannot fight an enigma. And Jack Russell batted for 3½ hours, which is what Test-match batting is about.   The bowlers, too, gave due notice. Gladstone Small was outstanding, Angus Fraser just lacking that vital spark in the second dig but still efficient in the first, as was Chris Lewis. Only Devon Malcolm disappointed, and he will presumably have his day.   There was much to admire. Yet, inescapably, they all blew it. England may not get a better chance this winter. 