 Ali Martin Ali Martin reports from Glamorgan v Surrey Take a bow Craig Meschede, who has blasted Glamorgan past the follow-on point in Cardiff with his maiden first-class century. Arriving at the crease with 121 runs still required, the No9 has made his case for a promotion up the order with a correct, unbeaten 100 from 129 balls to drive Surrey mad in this wicketless final session. A mention too for Dean Cosker, who has played the perfect support role until falling lbw to Jason Roy’s first ball of the match. Andy Carter picked up a single second ball and Meschede, on 95, burst past 414 with a four before a top-edged hook over mid-wicket brought him the century. Cracking stuff.  
 Richard Gibson Richard Gibson reports Matthew Fisher, Yorkshire’s 17-year-old seamer, nipped Steven Mullaney out lbw with a dozen overs of the third evening remaining and was agonisingly close to snaring first-innings double centurion Alex Hales for nought but Jack Leaning could not cling on at second slip. This is a tricky session for Nottinghamshire to negotiate and they are effectively 38-1 second time around. 
 Paul Weaver Sussex have been bowled out for 290 and Worcestershire need 247 to win a cracking match. Ben Brown was bowled by Jack Shantry just before tea, Ashar Zaidi was caught at backward short-leg, as was Tymal Mills, Steve Magoffin edged to slip and Ajmal Shahzad was bowled as he attempted to keep the strike from the last ball of the over after an enterprising innings of 35.Sachithra Senanayake finished with four wickets. This match is up for grabs but Sussex took the field without their left-arm quick Mills, who suffered a back injury on Monday. 
 Ali Martin writes from Cardiff Craig Meschede looks too accomplished to batting at No9 for Glamorgan, having swatted his side closer to avoiding the follow-on with his fifth first-class half-century to see the hosts 364 for eight and needing fifty more. I say swatted, Meschede, who removed **googlebots, listen up** Kevin Pietersen on day one, has looked technically very sound and brought up his 50 just now with a superb cut over point for four – his ninth boundary. Surrey last struck with the score on 293 and becoming mightily frustrated. 
 Richard Gibson reports It took a truly outstanding stumping from Chris Read to terminate Jack Leaning’s maiden first-class hundred. It was a sharply-spinning delivery that fizzed past the outside edge of Leaning’s bat and rose so sharply that Read collected it at shoulder height before pushing his hands down onto the bails to complete the dismissal.Incidentally, you can catch up with daily highlights here - for that Read clip alone it will be worth a visit tomorrow. Yorkshire on 434-8 lead by six runs at tea on day three. 
 Paul Weaver Dutch batsman Alexei Kervezee is only playing for Worcestershire because Moeen Ali has left the county to join up with England in the Caribbean. But he is playing a starring role – and as a bowler. Before Tuesday he had taken just 2 wickets in first-class cricket at an average of 89.50 and last season he bowled just seven overs. But in a 15-over spell either side of lunch he took three Sussex wickets for 47 runs to turn this compelling match in favour of his side He not only turned his off-breaks but bowled with rare control for a bowler of such limited experience, going for just 3.13 runs an over. He had already dismissed Machan before lunch and after the interval he reeled off another 12 overs and took the wickets of Luke Wright and Joyce. The ball that dismissed Wright, who was caught at short-leg, lifted and turned; Joyce, playing forward defensively, edged to second slip. That left Sussex in some trouble at 194 for five, just 150 on. The other worrying aspect for Sussex is that they don’t have a front-line spinner on a pitch that is responsive to even part-time twirlers. On this showing Kervezee, 25, is making a strong claim to be an all-rounder. 
 Ali Martin Ali Martin reports at tea Tea time in Cardiff where two Glamorgan tailenders are battling back, reaching the interval 319 for eight, needing a further 95 runs to avoid the follow-on. Craig Meschede - he of the Kevin Pietersen wicket on day one - has been having a biff from No10, cracking Gareth Batty - he of the two wickets since lunch - for a four through the covers, a huge six down over cow corner and a four through cover to wrap up up the session and sit 20 not out. His partner Dean Cosker is being slightly more circumspect and is six not out.  
 Ali Martin Ali Martin reports from Glamorgan v Surrey Gareth Batty is the man for Surrey, pinching two of three wickets since my last update. Graham Wagg had batted beautifully for 31 only to play back to one from the off-spinner and see his stumps disturbed. David Lloyd was then trapped lbw by the Surrey captain, sweeping. And just now Mark Wallace, who had brought up his half-century with an eighth four clipped through midwicket off Batty, has been caught behind off Tom Curran playing a straightforward defensive shot. Glamorgan are 121 runs away from the follow-on target and deep in strife on 293 for eight.  
 Richard Gibson Richard Gibson reports from Trent Bridge Nottinghamshire’s second wicket of the day at Trent Bridge proved something of a gift as Richard Pyrah’s short-arm jab off Vernon Philander towered to mid-on. It came as champions Yorkshire were on the attack - both Pyrah and Jack Leaning, whose clean strike earned him six, using their feet to his boundaries down the ground off Samit Patel in the previous over. As so often happens, a second wicket soon followed soon afterwards as Andrew Hodd chopped on and although Yorkshire will be confident of a lead - Leaning has just registered his maiden first-class hundred - it might not be as large as they might have anticipated at lunch. Leaning has batted beautifully with England’s lead batting coach Graham Thorpe looking on, and has a very capable seventh-wicket partner in Tim Bresnan. Yorkshire 400-6. 
 Ali Martin Ali Martin reports from Cardiff Glamorgan’s Graham Wagg loves a scrap – who else would try to get in the face of Kumar Sangakkara with a century already to his name? And now with bat in hand the No7 is enjoying himself, having crashed five fours since the lunch break. The right-hander has just popped off two in Matt Dunn’s last over, the first of which was driven though cover, the second an sumptuous on-drive. He and Mark Wallace have now added 50 for the sixth wicket in 16 overs, Glamorgan 260 for five. 
 Paul Weaver Sussex have moved to 131 for two from 34 overs at lunch, with Joyce on 61 and new batsman Craig Cachopa yet to score. They lost their second wicket at 129, in the 32nd over, when Machan, playing across the line, was lbw to a quicker ball from Alexei Kervezee, who bowled his off-breaks from the sea end with impressive control. This was only his third wicket in first-class cricket, but he looks better than that. Sussex may well be bowled out today but if they’re not it may be difficult to judge a declaration tomorrow, given the uncertain fitness/health of some of their fast bowlers. 
 Ali Martin reports at lunch It has been Surrey’s morning here in Cardiff where three wickets have put Glamorgan deep in trouble on 210 for five, some 353 runs behind the visitors. Just when things were looking so simple out in the middle, Matt Dunn got the breakthrough on the hour when he bowled Will Bragg around his legs for 37. There was a touch of thigh pad, but any excuses stop there with the left-hander misjudging the shot. Greater sympathy can be bestowed to Chris Cooke, who on 20 was the victim of a stunning exhibition of fielding from Zafar Ansari - a superb direct hit run out from the cover boundary with a stump-and-a-half to aim at. Nine balls later came the key strike, with seamer Tom Curran persuading the stylish left-hander Colin Ingram to smash one straight to Jade Dernbach at cover on 56. Mark Wallace and Graham Wagg will resume after the interval on one and three respectively. 
 Ali Martin Ali Martin reports from Cardiff Zafar Ansari has pulled off a champagne moment here in Cardiff with a direct hit from the cover boundary to remove Chris Cooke for 20. Just seconds after Cook’s inside edge had brought up the 200 for Glamorgan, a clip to the boundary saw Ansari pick up the ball and turn before unleashing a superb throw from all of 75 metres. Cooke, going for this third, may have made his ground had the fielder not been so accurate. But accurate it was and Surrey’s fielder’s erupt in celebration. At the other end the South African left-hander Colin Ingram has brought up his half-century from 94 balls and the home side are 202 for four, trailing by 361 runs.  
 Richard Gibson Richard Gibson reports from Nottinghamshire v Yorkshire Given the way they have applied themselves it is easy to forget that Yorkshire are missing five of their top seven batsmen in this match. Conditions are glorious and their young set have made use of them to register three batting points. The only casualty in the opening 90 minutes of the third day being their captain Andrew Gale. It was left-armer Harry Gurney who made that breakthrough: a full, swinging delivery travelling low to slip via an attempted on-drive. Gale lacked fluency on his return to County Championship action, failing to add to his overnight total of 13. The same could not be said of Jack Leaning, however, with a flurry of pulled boundaries dotting his 85-ball 50. From a position of 304-4, Yorkshire should achieve parity or better. In contrast, Nottinghamshire have five overs to secure the two wickets required for a second bowling point. 
 Paul Weaver There are few better cricket grounds to “lap” than the County Ground, Hove. I’ve just been watching the action sitting on the rail at the north end of the ground, looking down towards the sea. This is where the older players often gather. John Snow and Peter Graves are regularly seen here, and yesterday I bumped into another couple of Sussex old boys, Ian Gould and Tony Pigott. The cold wind which blighted Sunday and, to a lesser extent Monday, has dropped now and this is wonderful cricket weather at one of the country’s most attractive grounds. Sussex resumed on eight without loss, 36 runs behind Worcestershire, and in the second over of the day they lost Luke Wells, who can’t buy a run this season. He edged Charles Morris to Alex Gidman at third slip, ten for one in the fifth. Worcestershire should have had a second when Matt Machan edged to third slip where Tom Kohler-Cadmore put down the chance. Sussex are 83 for one after 18 overs, with Machan on 29 and a fluent Ed Joyce 41 not out. 
 Ali Martin Ali Martin writes from Cardiff  Wild celebrations here at the Swalec as Matt Dunn, who has previously been guilty of not making the batsmen play enough, cleans up Will Bragg for 37 for the first breakthrough of the day. The left-hander went to clip one down fine, misjudged and was bowled around his legs. There may have been a touch of thigh pad involved. Bragg had put on 91 with Colin Ingram, who is unbeaten on 30 at the other end and Glamorgan are 160 for three. Right-hander Chris Cooke is the new man in.  
 Ali Martin Ali Martin sends his first report of the day Is there such a thing as a left-hander’s pitch? If so, the beige, flat one in at the Swalec Stadium would be a candidate. With a nod to Sky’s David Fulton, who pointed out the discrepancy but left yours truly to crunch the numbers, here is a breakdown of the runs from the first two days of this Glamorgan v Surrey encounter: Left-handers - 549 runs at an average of 137.5 a wicket, Right-handers - 94 runs at 18.8. Anyway, two lefties are in at the moment with Will Bragg on 19 and Colin Ingram on 14, the sun is shining and the hosts are 124 for two in reply to Surrey’s 563 for seven declared. Have a great day, all.  
 Richard Gibson Richard Gibson sets up the day Such are the standards that Alex Lees sets himself these days that he assessed his seventh first-class hundred as “half a job”. In the circumstances it was easy to see both sides of the argument. To the glass-half-full assessors it continued his rich form at the start of the 2015 County Championship season – Nottinghamshire’s Alex Hales is the only batsman to have scored more runs than Lees in Division One – although those focusing on empty tops would point to a disappointing loss of concentration. The 22-year-old was out to a tame swish at Will Gidman the ball after reaching three figures. Getting closer to Hales’ career-best 236 in the first innings would have enhanced Yorkshire’s chances of securing a first innings lead in a match that appears destined for a draw. One word of warning, however. Trent Bridge is a ground where things happen quickly. It would only take a clutch of quick wickets for either side in the remaining two days to put a different complexion on things. Yorkshire resume on 226-3. Elsewhere, the 2014 Division Two champions Hampshire opened a narrow lead over last season’s Championship runners-up Warwickshire at Edgbaston while Worcestershire have reproduced the fight of their first two days against Yorkshire last week on the south coast where a Sussex victory is far from guaranteed. As is a Surrey one over Glamorgan at Cardiff. The friendly nature of the pitch there was put into context by the hosts losing just two wickets in 44 overs in response to Surrey’s 563-7 declared. However, the more intriguing contests of Division Two are at Chelmsford and along the A52 at Derby. A wicket-fest across the opening two days - which saw 33 wickets tumble - has left Essex 66-3 in their chase of 193 to beat Kent. Although the bowler-dominated match has raised eyebrows around the circuit, Graham Cowdrey, one of the four new cricket liaison officers, has been on hand to witness it and word has it that the umpires do not consider the pitch ‘poor’. Meanwhile, Derbyshire may feel they have a slight edge in a tight affair against recently-relegated Lancashire, who resume this morning 55 runs ahead with three second-wicket innings down. 
 Morning all. Today we have Ali Martin at Glamorgan v Surrey, Paul Weaver at Sussex v Worcestershire and Richard Gibson at Nottinghamshire v Yorkshire. Here are their reports from yesterday: Alex Lees leads Yorkshire’s response to NottinghamshireAlex Lees revelled in his role as Yorkshire’s young fogey to thwart one of the teams billed as most likely to challenge for their County Championship pennant this season. Just half-a-dozen days past his 22nd birthday, Lees struck his seventh first-class hundred on the ground where Yorkshire sealed the title in September. His composure at the crease belies his tender years and how Yorkshire have needed it at the start of this season. Richard Oliver hits ton to give Worcestershire leadThe Sussex batsman Craig Cachopa was born in South Africa, captained the New Zealand Under-19 side and clutches a Portuguese passport, and he appeared to be contemplating his exotic background when he spilled three catches. Sussex have won six of their last seven home matches against Worcestershire but they have much work to do against one of last season’s promoted sides. Steven Davies’ double-century has Kumar Sangakkara purringThe Surrey captain, Gareth Batty, struck late in the evening session to remove his Glamorgan opposite number and complete a dominant day two in which Steven Davies chalked up a maiden double-century in first-class cricket. Enjoy the cricket Updated