 Another Test series involving South Africa, another mysterious leak. This time the Proteas, who continue to deny any involvement in the emergence of Kevin Pietersen's text messages that led to his convenient exclusion from the third Test against England at Lord's in August, are the subject of a "top secret dossier" – dubbed, hilariously, the Protea Files – which has somehow found its way on to the back page of Brisbane's Courier Mail on the eve of their series opener against Australia at the Gabba. The contents are hardly earth-shattering. Bowl full at Graeme Smith to expose his lack of footwork, test out Hashim Amla and Jacques Kallis with some short stuff, target Imran Tahir as the weak link of the South Africa attack. England tried all three of those in the summer, without much success. But they have been given a terrific spin – "Engage Amla in a psychological sledging war, ruthlessly target Tahir" – and it is the means by which Australia's plans have made it into the papers that is especially intriguing. Maybe it's a repeat of the happy accident through which the former Australia coach John Buchanan slipped notes highlighting the weaknesses of New Zealand players under the doors of their hotel rooms during a series more than a decade ago. Now Mickey Arthur, the former South Africa coach who developed a close relationship with Smith and other senior Proteas players, is in charge of the Australia team, providing another potential twist. It might be seen as an imaginative attempt to boost ticket sales ahead of a three-Test series in Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth – surprisingly, South Africa will not play in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne, or in the New Year in Sydney, as Australia are hosting Sri Lanka in another three-Test series in the second half of their summer. A series win against South Africa would lift Australia above the Proteas and England and back to the top of the official world Test rankings for the first time since their defeat in the 2009 Ashes. They slipped as low as fifth after England retained the Ashes in January 2011 but have bounced back impressively under the captaincy of Michael Clarke to win eight of their past 10 Tests. The turning point came in South Africa 12 months ago, when they were humiliated in the first Test in Cape Town – all out for 47 in the second innings and beaten by eight wickets after dismissing their hosts for 96 first time around – but levelled a preposterously short two-match series with a thrilling win in Johannesburg inspired by the debutant Pat Cummins. Since then Clarke's team have thrashed India at home and won in the West Indies, although there was another hiccup when they lost to New Zealand in Hobart. South Africa have been far more consistent and convincing, beating New Zealand away and Sri Lanka at home – albeit with a slip-up in Durban – before their comprehensive triumph in England. That means they need only draw the series to preserve their position at the top of the rankings. But South Africa are determined to repeat the success they enjoyed on their last tour of Australia in 2008-9, when they followed a series win in England with victories in Perth and Melbourne to win a three-Test series 2-1. Their preparations for this series have also been smoother than Australia's. The Proteas are expected to start in Brisbane with the same 11 who won their last Test at Lord's. Australia have lost Cummins for months with more worrying stress fractures, and Shane Watson has also been ruled out of his home Queensland Test after straining a calf in a Sheffield Shield match last weekend. He has been replaced in the squad by Rob Quiney, an experienced left-hander from Victoria who is expected to make his debut at number three, behind Ed Cowan and David Warner, as Australia revert to their old policy of picking six specialist batsmen and four bowlers rather than seeking to replace Watson with another all-rounder. That means Mitchell Starc, Ben Hilfenhaus and James Pattinson are probably scrapping for two places in the attack with Peter Siddle and the off-spinner Nathan Lyon. There has also been a fitness scare surrounding Australia's old warhorse Ricky Ponting, who tweaked a hamstring playing for Tasmania last week. But the 37-year-old has insisted he will definitely be fit to play his 166th Test. • Heavy rain meant that no play was possible on the second day of the first Test between Australia and South Africa. The tourists will begin day three on 255 for two. • England's final warm-up match in India appears to be heading for a draw. On the third and penultimate day, Haryana were dismissed for 333, with Tim Bresnan and Stuart Meaker each taking three wickets. England finished on 118 for nought, a lead of 306, with Nick Compton making another half century. 