 "How do you bowl straight?" has been the overriding question for England throughout the NatWest series. So when Tim Bresnan bowled a ball so wide in the warm-up that it missed the practice pitch and careered into an Ask.com hoarding at fine leg, there was only one thing for it: ask an internet search engine for guidance. After all, Ask.com is an official England cricket sponsor and Kevin Shine, the bowling coach, would welcome any help he could get. It did not take long to discover the drawback. Ask's advice on "How do you bowl straight?" did seem a little bit sketchy. Its first response to the dilemma that is vexing England's pace attack was to offer the secrets of ten-pin bowling. "Learn the secret of scoring 200 plus every time you play," it promised. That was all very well, but England's batsmen can do that; it is wickets that they need. The search became increasingly unhelpful. There was some information to be had about "Magnum Double Bowl Straight Front Kitchen Sinks" but by then Steve Harmison had begun with three wides and Kabir Ali, having his first ODI bowl in England, had launched his do-or-die attempt to prove his World Cup credentials with two wide half-volleys. Sri Lanka, clearly, were already throwing the kitchen sink at it. As Liam Plunkett was targeted from the outset, just as Sajid Mahmood had been earlier in the series, an answer was desperately needed. "How DO you bowl straight?" On faceparty.com, Laura, 18, assured her admirers that she was straight, up for a laugh and liked a drink. By now we all would have liked one as Mahela Jayawardene skeltered towards what would be an 82-ball hundred. There had to be some advice somewhere. Jayawardene was at his friskiest, and Sri Lanka were responding to the exhortations of their coach, Tom Moody, to beat England 5-0 and make them feel the pain. Then, the ball after his hundred, Jayawardene flicked a return catch to the admirable Jamie Dalrymple, and the words of the Bradford Telegraph & Argus appeared on the screen. "Steeton reached the semi-finals of the Waddilove Cup because they could bowl straight." Someone in England could, then. But even that turned out to be a bowl-out. England's wides were mounting: 23 at Lord's, 21 at The Oval and 21 yesterday. They bowled only five at Chester-le-Street, but that was because barely a ball passed the bat. England, it seemed, were as wide of the mark as Ask. At 275 for seven with three overs remaining, Kabir had one final chance. Valued at Worcestershire as a "block-hole" bowler at the death, his last two disastrous overs cost 35, a succession of haywire full tosses. Farveez Maharoof swung his way to a first ODI fifty. Vikram Solanki, Kabir's county captain, trotted up with advice. From England's captain, Andrew Strauss, there was not a word. "What's wrong with Kabir?" Even for an internet search engine, that was a question too cruel to ask. 