 With the ICC announcing this week that the appeal against suspension of the three Pakistani players accused of spot-fixing has been set, the Times of India notes that the Pakistan Cricket Board is not providing financial assistance for their legal battle. The former captain Salman Butt, as a result, has turned to the hugely colourful Aftab Gul to represent him. "I have been a political activist for more than four decades and I am a founder member of the Pakistan Peoples Party. I am on the left and in thrall to Karl Marx," Gul tells Sri Lanka's Daily Mirror. Also a former cricketer, he played in six Tests between 1969 and 1971. "I am the only player who played a Test match while on bail," Gul adds. "It was the first Test at Lahore against Colin Cowdrey's MCC in 1968: I was released so I could play." He had been detained for political activities as a student leader. An opening batsman, Gul scored more than 1,000 runs on tour in England in 1971. "I was the leading run-getter until being hit on the head in the first over of the first Test at Edgbaston." Gul was declared fit after his wound was stitched, prompting a Brian Johnson classic: "Gul's all right. The doctor inspected his head this morning and found nothing in it." Gul, now practising in Lahore, will represent Butt at the end of this month. Some celebration in South Africa this week as the most underachieving major side in rugby union, the Golden Lions, have become the first club to be owned by a black South African. Robert Gumede, an IT billionaire who used to own a football club called the Dangerous Darkies in Mpumalanga, sealed the deal for just over £7m. He says he has invested because of "the nation-building ability of the game. The first step is to create role models for young black players." All good PR. Less well reported is that the deal was done with Gumede's "long-time family friend, international businessman and philanthropist, Ivor Ichikowitz". That's the press release version. Jane's Defence Weekly says Ichikowitz recently brokered a deal to sell six South African Mirage F1 AZ jet fighters to Gabon. The nation's Times newspaper's headline is blunt: "Arms dealer buys into ailing Lions." ‎ Victoria Beckham says she teaches her kids about the value of money by making them "buy" breakfast from her. "They say 'Mum, we want our Cocoa Puffs.' And I'm going, 'Cocoa Puffs! That'll be $1.20!'" But David isn't so on-message. The Philadelphia Inquirer reports that Becks, visiting the city, went straight from the airport to the Barclay Prime restaurant, where he ordered the region's trademark Philly cheesesteak. The standard Philly cheesesteak is made of cheese and steak, on a roll. It costs $4. Becks' version was a bit more upmarket. The Prime cheesesteak is "Sliced Kobe beef, melted Taleggio cheese, shaved truffles, sautéed foie gras, caramelised onions and shaved heirloom tomatoes on a homemade brioche roll brushed with truffle butter and squirted with homemade mustard." It costs $100 (£63). Philadelphians think the $4 cheesesteak is fine as it is. "You shouldn't mess with the Philadelphia cheesesteak," says local resident Samuel Lehrer, on Msnbc.com. "Let it alone."  