 It was Daniel Vettori who showed England the way at Old Trafford. The wind blew relentlessly throughout the match and Vettori exposed a couple of cricketing myths: that spinners should always bowl into the wind to allow the pacemen that advantage; that spinners like bowling into the wind so that the ball can hang enticingly in the air. Thereafter it often hangs in the air somewhere beyond the sightscreen.  In England's first innings Vettori operated from the Brian Statham End with the gale at his back. 'Ah, the captain's prerogative,' said the cynics. No, a shrewd cricketing brain taking the best option for his side. Soon Vettori had five wickets downwind and England were skittled.  In New Zealand's first innings Michael Vaughan had stuck with conventional 'wisdom'. Panesar bowled into the wind - 22-1-101-1. In the second, with the wind, he over-pitched for three overs and conceded 20 runs quickly (hardly surprising since the gusts were in excess of 30mph). Then he acclimatised. His final figures: 17-5-37-6.  Panesar's second-innings harvest reminded me of one of Duncan Fletcher's least quoted observations about England's left-armer, which came after another Old Trafford Test - against Pakistan in 2006. In that game, when only two English bowlers took wickets, Panesar finished with a match haul of eight for 93 (Steve Harmison and a run-out accounted for the rest), which prompted England's coach to say: 'He's the best orthodox finger-spinner in the world.' Effectively this meant: 'He's better than Vettori.' We do not usually remember Fletcher for speaking well of Panesar, but just occasionally he let a compliment slip.  Over the past three months, during which England always seem to be playing New Zealand, some of my Kiwi colleagues have been aghast when I have taken a similar view. Let me explain. On a pitch that offers help to a spin bowler Panesar is a more difficult proposition than Vettori. He is quicker through the air, those massive fingers spin the ball more vigorously and he can still get the ball to dip at the end of its flightpath. Once he has found a length there is no easy escape route as the ball keeps hitting the shoulder of the bat or the front pad. In the sort of conditions experienced at Old Trafford, Panesar is the more dangerous bowler.  However, on a non-turning featherbed with no encouragement for the spinner, Vettori would probably be the better bet. Here, his ability to change the flight and pace of his deliveries can be of greater value. Panesar has not mastered all those clever variations yet, and he should be in no hurry to introduce them.  Given Panesar's success at Old Trafford there may have some consternation that he was not included in the one-day squad announced by the national selector, Geoff Miller, on Friday. However, one-day cricket requires a spinner to have variety and here Vettori is the acknowledged supremo. In the past Panesar's bowling has degenerated after exposure to limited-overs cricket (he has played 26 ODIs with modest success). His arm has dropped and he has lost his 'dip'. For the moment Miller is right to keep him away from that white ball.  So far Miller's selections bear the hallmarks of his predecessor, David Graveney, except that he keeps the names to himself for a bit longer. Consistency and stability are his watchwords. Hence the only significant change to the one-day team is the replacement of Phil Mustard with Tim Ambrose. Even that can be justified on the basis of 'consistency', since it makes sense to have the same keeper in all forms of the game. In Mustard's absence we wait with interest to see who opens the batting with Alastair Cook in one-day cricket.  Today, Miller announces the Test squad for Trent Bridge and, by the same token, we expect him to be consistent and to reward those who won a match that looked unwinnable last Sunday lunchtime. England's past two victories against New Zealand have been unusual, to say the least. In Napier England were four for three after 20 minutes, yet won by 121 runs; at Old Trafford they had a first-innings deficit of 179 runs and won by six wickets.  This says something about the resilience of Vaughan's team, but also about the fragility of the Kiwis. If ever they get the upper hand they appear to suffer from altitude sickness. A better side, say South Africa, who arrive on 26 June, would never surrender the initiative so easily. Miller would like a conventional victory at Trent Bridge.  And he will probably take the conventional route of never changing a winning side - another cricketing myth - though one that may be justified on this occasion. He should check out Paul Collingwood, who has been in dire touch and has a dodgy shoulder. To play in a Test he should be fully fit to bowl, which can be assessed far more easily than whether he is returning to form. Sometimes one shot can change everything.  There is also the complication of Collingwood's captaincy of the one-day side. In theory this should make no difference as to whether he is selected for the Test team; in practice it is not quite so simple.  It may take the return of Andrew Flintoff to stir the selectorial pot. We discuss that possibility most weeks. To save time, energy and angst I will suspend that activity until he has hurtled down another 100 overs for Lancashire. It is just that it was more fun when Fred was around. 