 A remarkable spell of bowling from their spinner Jack Leach ensured Somerset picked up the seven points required for their Division One survival. Leach took four wickets in 13 balls without conceding a run as Warwickshire lost five wickets without adding to their score. Earlier, Leach had shared a 61-run 10th-wicket partnership that gave Somerset a fifth batting bonus point after they lost four for 17 in 16 balls at the start of day two. James Hildreth fell without adding to his overnight 118. With Warwickshire cruising in response Leach bowled Ian Westwood with the score on 88. When Alfonso Thomas pinned Ian Bell LBW to make it 105 for two Leach picked up four more without the score advancing to secure a first, then second bowling point and safety. Warwickshire stemmed the flow to close on 180 for seven. At Trent Bridge, Nottinghamshire’s Harry Gurney picked up three early Hampshire wickets to leave the visitors – who must win and hope Sussex lose to survive - in danger of no further bonus points and the follow-on. However, Hants recovered from 89 for five to close on 298 for eight thanks to a counter-attacking sixth-wicket stand of 70 from Liam Dawson (69) and Sean Ervine (32) and an unbeaten eighth-wicket partnership of 98 from Ryan McLaren and Gareth Berg. The day started in dramatic fashion at Headingley when Yorkshire sealed their second batting point – thus breaking the record for the most points since two divisions came in – before losing their final three wickets for one run in 10 balls. Sussex then lost their openers - one of whom was Chris Jordan, rather surprisingly – for three runs as they crumbled to 70 for five. They battled back into the game after lunch, adding 104 in 15 overs for the loss of Ben Brown, caught at long leg. Mike Yardy made 70 before dragging on and the tail could not provide a second batting point as they were all out for 248. In response Alex Lees was caught and bowled by Jordan first ball, but Adam Lyth and Gary Ballance shared 55 before the close. The equation for Sussex is simple: avoid defeat and retain Division One status. In the race for the Division Two title Lancashire made a wonderful start, reducing Essex to 29 for three - including James Anderson removing Alastair Cook for one – before running in to Ravi Bopara (99) and Jesse Ryder (116), who shared 186 as Essex reached the close on 328 for seven. At the Oval, Kumar Sangakkara made another masterful century and Sam Curran struck his maiden first-class 50 to hand Surrey four points as they reached 378 for eight against an increasingly ragged Northamptonshire. Sangakkara was in exquisite form, driving and flicking wristily; he brought up up his 50 with a six over long-off and his century with a vintage cover drive. 