 Will Macpherson Right, they have finally finished at Edgbaston. I want you all doing your rain dances overnight. There’s rubbish forecast tomorrow. Here’s the scores: Speak in the morning ... go well. 
 Will Macpherson Middlesex are going to end up with four batting points. Somerset pushing for a third bowling point. What a superb effort from both Harris and Fuller. 
 The previous record for Middx's 9th wicket vs Somerset stood since 1895 and was 93 by E. A. Nepean & G. Thornton at Lord's. #bbccricket 
 Will Macpherson Vital partnership. FIFTY FOR @James_Fuller246 - #TeamMiddlesex 295-8. Fuller 50*, 72 balls, 5x4s, 1x6. His first Championship innings for Middlesex. #batted 
 Will Macpherson To the surprise of, well, absolutely nobody, play has been abandoned for the day at the Oval. Surrey are 95 for two with both Finch and Ansari looking tidy. Ironically, it’s nice and bright now (still a bit cloudy), and I don’t thin we’ll have any more rain. But that - with a very sodden outfield - is that. 
 Will Macpherson No it could not. 100 stand for the @WorcsCCC openers. This day could not be going more to plan for them... #bbccricket 
 Will Macpherson Extraordinarily, just as this day looked set to be put out of its dubious misery, the umpires have decided to have a further - and final inspection at halt past five. 5.30! Five-thirty. 1730. If it doesn’t rain again, that is. 5.30. 
 Will Macpherson This really is ever so frustrating. Every time play has looked close, the rain has started - never too powerfully - again. That’s the drill at the moment, I’m afraid. I would think our hopes of play are diminishing fairly fast now. Hampshire have Warwickshire in a spot of bother, don’t they? IJL Trott at the crease after Berg bowled Bell. 12 for two. Middlesex are slowly building a vital lead, while the going looks pretty easy for Worcestershire at Northampton. 
 Will Macpherson Warwickshire are one down already! Umeed is bowled by Gareth Andrew’s first ball and Ian Bell is in rather sooner than he might have liked, you sense. It’s 6 for one. 
 Will Macpherson The covers were coming off ... and are now heading back on. More light rain. I’m getting quite close to doing a swear. 
 Middlesex lead! Cracking game, that. TEA - #TeamMiddlesex 242-8 leading by 6 runs after 80 overs of our first innings. Harris 25*, Fuller 22*. 
 I reckon some of the maths here is suspect. I mean, this is the scorecard. Hampshire all out for 531. Incredible @CountyChamp innings...1 double-ton, 2 centuries & 2 fifties. 👏 Wheater finished unbeaten on 204! 
 Will Macpherson Couldn’t get through Adam Wheater though, could he? Career best 4-85 for @JoshPoysden14 as @hantscricket lose last 5 wkts for 9 runs pic.twitter.com/0MClrDS6RH 
 Will Macpherson The Glamorgan account very rarely seems to tweet about its cricket team.  What are you doing on Saturday? Come see Kaisers, Dizzee & Everything Everything in Cardiff https://t.co/vXiiW1Evoc pic.twitter.com/Ecj8qJuGdN 
 Will Macpherson It is absolutely all happening at Edgbaston. All, that is, except Adam Wheater getting out or a declaration. A wicket falls at Edgbaston! And another one! Ervine caught extra cover for 75! McManus at slip for 0! Extraordinary scenes...522-7 
 Will Macpherson At Edgbaston, Patel gets Ervine for a quickfire 75, and it’s 522 for six. SURELY a declaration soon. Surely? 
 Will Macpherson It’s tea and the umpires are inspecting. Blotter is out there, and the clean up is underway. George Bailey is gone at Taunton! Middlesex 23 behind with two wickets in hand. Hampshire, at 520 for five, must be getting close to a declaration, now Wheater has a double ton. Worcester are right in control at Northampton. 
 Will Macpherson Well batted the Slug. Hants are 480 for five. Congratulations to @slug_7 (52*), who has surpassed 10,000 first-class runs!50 stats: 70 balls, 5 fours, 2 sixes pic.twitter.com/5dZDoqb4Rv 
 Will Macpherson So I come bearing news. Tea will be taken at 3.10, when there will also be an inspection, with a view to getting underway again at half 3. Simples, and about right I’d say. 
 Will Macpherson Five for Lloyds Leach! He gets last man Murphy as Worcestershire have a first innings lead of 129 after Northamptonshire were bowled out for 148.  