 And because we’re super efficient here, we have a brand spanking new match report for you already. Vic Marks’ copy will be along soon enough and that will, no doubt, be even better. As for me, I’m done for the day. Nick Miller is yer man tomorrow, I believe, to guide you through India v West Indies in the contest to see who will face England in the World T20 final. England in the World T20 final! Cheers for reading, for writing, for tweeting. Sorry I couldn’t use them all. Bye! 
 Jason Roy is man of the match. No surprises there. “The bowling unit did really well, they are a hugely dangerous line-up. “It was a chance to get off to a great start on a decent wicket. I gave it a crack and it came off. I got a few boundaries early and kept going from there ... If you let the occasion get to you it can be to your detriment.” 
 Morgan on his own form: “When I’ve got past one ball I’ve been hitting it pretty well. It’s that first ball.” 
 Kane Williamson: “Credit to England’s bowlers for the way they pulled it back. If we’d got to the 180 mark, which we thought was realistic, we thought it would be a different game but they bowled better than us and we got beaten by a better team. “England’s bowlers bowled very well but there’s a lot of belief in the camp and we back our bowlers to defend whatever we get. We managed to put them under a bit of pressure but the damage was done early on.” 
 Eoin Morgan speaks. “We would have liked to have started better with the ball but after the first six or seven overs we played really well. Kane played really well and it was important to get him. We kept taking wickets which helped.” 
 Before that, some key information for those of you in New York. @DanLucas86 places to watch the cricket in new york, the Espn bar in times square dull overpriced but lots of tv screens or the 13th step 
 That was an outstanding win from England, their best performance of the tournament. Their bowlers were outstanding at the death, conceding just 20 runs in the final four overs. Jason Roy’s best innings to date in the format pretty much killed off New Zealand and Root and Buttler finished with the kind of ice cold aplomb we might soon come to expect from this England side. Updated
 18th over: England 159-3 (Buttler 32, Root 27) Santner’s first ball is short and Buttler slogs it into the stand beyond cow corner! 
 17th over: England 153-3 (Buttler 26, Root 27) target 154 England are, much to the amusement of Scott Styris on the telly, behind at this stage. Root immediately corrects that with a reverse sweep of Sodhi, round the corner for four. A single brings Buttler on strike and he looks fed up of being out there, nailing a short one through square midwicket for a second boundary. A pair of massive sixes back over the bowler’s head reduces the required runs to two with one ball left in the over. They’ve scored more runs in this over than New Zealand made in their last four. An overthrow from the last ball brings the scores level. Updated
 16th over: England 131-3 (Buttler 9, Root 22) target 154 Elliott again. “HIT ME!” scream Elliott’s dibbly dobblers, like the bastard offspring of Britney Spears and Ian Dury. After four balls and three singles of dry tedium, Buttler finally cracks and reverse sweeps down to third man for four. A whopping seven off that over. 
 15th over: England 124-3 (Buttler 4, Root 20) target 154 Sodhi off, Santner on. Not sure about that one myself. Three ones are followed by three nones. The required rate creeps up to, er, six. “The Australian on West 38th street will be showing the final,” Oliver Pattenden writes for Carolin Lotter. Updated
 14th over: England 121-3 (Buttler 3, Root 18) target 154 McClenaghan returns to send down his mixture of slower balls and cutters. Joe Root nurdles a single – one of four in this over – that takes him past Virat Kohli as the leading run-scorer of the teams who entered this tournament at the Super 10 stage. Or, as I like to call it, the start. 33 needed from 36. “I fear my husband has just jinxed the outcome of this match by confidently suggesting we need to find somewhere in New York to watch the final on Sunday,” writes Carolin Lotter. “Without wanting to add to the jinx, if anyone knows of a place to watch on Sunday morning, we’d be grateful! (Just in case!) “And as I type this we’ve just lost Roy and Morgan!! Oh dear! Sorry.” It’s OK. John Starbuck has apologised, by the way, folks. 
 13th over: England 117-3 (Buttler 1, Root 16) target 154 Buttler sees off the hat-trick ball with a slip and leg-slip surrounding him. Look, there’s no need to panic, England fans. Buttler gets off the mark with a hard pull to square leg for one then Guptill saves a couple with a good sliding stop out near cow corner after Sodhi presented Root with a full-toss. Then a nerve-settling boundary to finish as the bowler over-corrects, drags it down and gets put away through midwicket by Root. “So who would England rather face in the final, Dan?” asks Simon McMahon. “A chance to beat Kohli and Dhoni in their own back yard, or revenge over Gayle and the West Indies? I started typing this just as Roy got out. That’s ok, though, there’s no way England can lose this. Oh, now Morgan’s gone first ball. Still, there’s no way England can lose this.” 
 Ah. Morgan gets his second golden duck of the tournament. Playing all round one that barely turns and it’s as plumb as you will see. 
 That’s the end of that fun. Sodhi drags his length down, Roy gives it the charge but is beaten by the leg-break, which clatters into the stumps. His 78 came from just 44 balls. @DanLucas86 John Starbuck just lost England the World Cup Updated
 12th over: England 110-1 (Roy 78, Root 10) target 154 I don’t think New Zealand wanted to turn back to Milne in the 12th over, but here we are. Roy tries to smash him straight away but can only get it down to the fielder at long-on for one. It takes the required runs down to an even 50. They should be able to stroll into the final from here. A couple more singles then short to Root and he pulls behind square, into the gap and away for for with just the one skip over the rope. He’s such a wonderful batsman to watch when he times shots like that. 
 11th over: England 103-1 (Roy 76, Root 5) target 154 Joe Root pushes the second single of the over from its second ball and takes England to perhaps the breeziest hundred they’ve ever reached at an ICC one-day event. Sodhi has Roy in a touch of trouble with a googly but the leading edge loops high and out of his reach. A final-ball dot ends the run of singles. Mike McCarthy writes: “There’s an argument, given the context, that’s the greatest powerplay England have ever had in one day cricket. They’ve definitely got the right two openers, finally.” 
 10th over: England 98-1 (Roy 73, Root 3) target 154 Elliott is a very economical bowler and his solitary over so far went for just five, which was as blessed a relief for New Zealand as all that water at the end of Mad Max Fury Road. But with England needing just a run a ball now, the Kiwis need someone to be more than just tight. Three singles from the first four balls, then he strays down leg and Roy, down on one knee, flicks it over long leg for six as it clatters into the rope on the full! “England should be ashamed of themselves,” reckons Ian Copestake. They have reduced the big bash format to a run a ball stroll. Am sure the organisers will be most unimpressed.” Updated
 9th over: England 88-1 (Roy 65, Root 1) target 154 Finally the partnership is broken. After Roy had smeared Santner down to long on for three, Hales tried to double it with a shot to the same area. Root comes in and has the best view in the house as Roy smites his 11th four, a beautifully timed pull through midwicket. Meanwhile, the first sign of spring: some County Championship news. 
 Hales steps down the wicket and tries to plant Santner in the stands beyond long-on, but it comes off the bottom end of the bat and Munro takes the catch easy as you like. Updated
 8th over: England 79-0 (Roy 57, Hales 20) target 154 Quick bowling hasn’t worked, spin hasn’t worked, so now we get Grant Elliott’s solid, dependable, near-unhittable medium pace. He does create a chance off Hales, beating the inside edge when the batsman walked down the wicket but Ronchi, standing up, fumbled the stumping. Just four from the over, all in singles. Jinx lover John Starbuck asks: “Not to put any kiboshes or anything, but what is the biggest winning margin by a T20 international chasing side?” Sri Lanka beat the Netherlands by nine wickets with 90 balls remaining in 2014. 
 7th over: England 75-0 (Roy 55, Hales 18) target 154 Ish Sodhi comes into the attack with England needing 87 from 84 balls. Roy pushes his first ball to midwicket and hustles through for the single he needs to his maiden T20 half-century. It’s the second quickest by an Englishman in World T20s. He gets four more with a lovely reverse sweep behind point. As an England fan, you worry about how easy he’s making this look. “Odds on Roy getting an ipl 2017 contract must be getting near evens,” reckons Matthew Valentine. 
 6th over: England 67-0 (Roy 49, Hales 16) target 154 Unless they lose a couple of wickets in this over, this has already been a brilliant powerplay for England. We have a brief pause as Roy has to change his bat, cracking it while trying to smash past mid-off. Shame for him as that one was serving him rather well. This one looks pretty handy too, mind, as he places a short ball perfectly past midwicket and gets four more. Loving this. People always go on about how Jason Roy gets himself out. WHO CARES #AUSvENG 
 5th over: England 60-0 (Roy 43, Hales 15) target 154 This is going to be interesting. Santner and a bit of spin. England will surely reign in the big hits against the slower bowler with the ball not coming on to the bat? A leg-bye brings up the 50 in double quick time. Or I could be talking nonsense, as Roy effortlessly – nay, dismissively – whacks back-to-back boundaries: the first back down the ground, the second swished from well outside leg down to fine-leg. He’s 42 from 18, with 34 of those coming in boundaries. From the last, he makes it 43 from 19 with a push to cover. 
 4th over: England 49-0 (Roy 34, Hales 15) target 154 Milne is a touch lucky not to have done himself a mischief, tumbling to his left and sticking a palm out to save four from a crunching Roy off-drive. He has serious wheels but England’s openers are loving how it comes on to, and indeed off, the bat. There’s no saving this shot from Hales though, a slower bouncer that the lanky opener steps back from and smears through midwicket to the fence. Hales does well to dig out an excellent slow yorker, bringing Roy on strike and he whacks a cross-bat smear back over the bowler’s head for another six! What a start this is from England.  Updated
 3rd over: England 36-0 (Roy 27, Hales 9) target 154 Change of bowler but Williamson opts not to experiment with spin just yet; instead it’s Mitch McClenaghan. The batsmen exchange singles, knocked into the on-side, then Mitch gives Hales a juicy half volley that the batsman, two steps down the wicket, lifts effortlessly over long-on for six. One more single, then a fifth boundary for Roy with a perfect checked drive straight back down the ground. 
 2nd over: England 23-0 (Roy 22, Hales 1) target 154 Right-arm fast now as Milne shares the new ball. Hales gets his first ball away to square-leg for one. His extra pace sends the ball flying past Roy’s attempted cut – had Anderson bowled that ball you’d imagine it was going away. The next ball is away, slightly lower and chopped behind point for four more by Roy, who has scored all 20 of his runs in boundaries. He’s beaten by a bouncer next up though. He has another wild hack and gets another top edge, but he gets enough on it to send it over backward point for a couple. That was a cracking contest. Jason Roy hit as many fours in the first over as New Zealand did in their final 10 overshttps://t.co/uQ1dlaEgK2 #WT20 #ENGvNZ 
 1st over: England 16-0 (Roy 16, Hales 0) target 154 Corey Anderson v Jason Roy first up. The former begins by beating the batsman with one that nips away off the seam, but his second is shorter and across the right-hander from over the wicket and cut hard through point for four. Roy comes down the wicket two balls later and gets four more, albeit not where he intended, as he wild slog finds the inside edge and sends the ball down to fine leg. And a third boundary from the next ball, another wild hack and a top edge down to third man! Make it four fours as he guides the final ball wide of backward point and down to the rope between third man and backward point! That was pretty appalling shot-making from Roy but he won’t give a solitary one. Updated
 #ENGvNZ STATBYTE:England bowled TEN full tosses in the last five overs, taking two wickets and conceding only EIGHT runs in the process. 
 “Beware the spinners,” writes Sam Hedges. “How many do NZ have in the team today?” Just the two, but with average of 9.75 and 9.55 respectively this tournament, Sodhi and Santner have been rather handy. 
 That was an outstanding fightback from England. They conceded just 20 from the final four overs and you’d think New Zealand left 20-30 runs out there. This is gettable, but then the Kiwis have been brilliant at defending low totals so far. Back with you in 10. Updated
 20th over: New Zealand 153-8 (Elliott 4) It is Stokes with the last over. He begins with a slow, short cutter that starts outside leg and sways back in, past Santner’s swing. Mitch McClenaghan comes out. Stokes has been very lucky with those three wickets, but you have to admire the way he’s held his nerve. Third ball is a bye to the keeper that brings the new man on strike (the batsmen crossed before); he picks another slower ball but can’t get it away for anything more than a single. Elliott gets another leg-bye from the fifth, meaning McClenaghan will face the last and he’s run out by Stokes after trying to steal a bye. 
 19th over: New Zealand 150-6 (Elliott 4, Santner 7) Jordan, with outstanding figures of one for 15 from his three overs so far, to bowl the penultimate over. This is lovely stuff, full and varying his line and still New Zealand can’t pierce the field. And then, as soon as I’ve written that, Santner gets a nice juicy waist-high full toss and thumps it through extra cover for a much-needed four. Nine from the over and England will take that here. 
 18th over: New Zealand 141-6 (Elliott 1, Santner 1) Stokes, it seems, will bowl the 18th and 20th overs. Anderson smashes the first ball to Jordan and mid-off and would have been out had the throw hit. But it didn’t. Ronchi gets a couple, reading a slower ball and guiding it out behind point to the sweeper. Two wickets from consecutive crap balls though show T20 at its worst and perhaps put England in the driving seat. Anderson, who made 28 from 23, could have made it a daunting total but England have conceded just eight runs from their last two overs now. At the death, that’s outstanding. 
 Stokes is on a hat-trick! It’s another low full-toss, smashed up in the air and Jordan catches it in the deep, running round from mid-off! Updated
 A rank low full-toss and Ronchi offers catching practice to long-off. That’s not very good from anyone. Well, except for Willey. Updated
 17th over: New Zealand 136-4 (Ronchi 1, Anderson 27) Jordan, with two overs left, returns. He starts brilliantly, with a couple of yorker-length balls yielding only a single before the third ball gets rid of the dangerous Taylor. And, er, effects the arrival of the dangerous Luke Ronchi. Just two more singles. 