 Professionally foolish though it may be to admit it, given a choice I would genuinely prefer to spend a day at a county championship match than at a Test match. There, said it. Even an Ashes Test, which Sky's wearyingly unrelenting hype would have us believe is the greatest sporting contest since, well, their last live Premier League football match. Which is not to say I'm not hugely interested in the Test matches. Of course I am, and I'll follow the Guardian's live over-by-over coverage, watch the evening's TV highlights and the following morning read the outstanding analysis of Messrs Selvey, Marks, Ronay, Wilson and co with real attention, because underneath the teeth-grittingly tedious caterwauling of the Barmy Army, the execrable poetry, and the singing of Jerusalem as if it's some sort of patriotic hymn, a historic and hopefully memorable sporting confrontation will be taking place. Thankfully however domestic cricket continues apace, and, while the rhythm can hardly be described as unchanging, it will offer cricket of an extraordinarily high standard – at times international standard – in conditions and an atmosphere in which it can be appreciated and enjoyed. Next week, for example, which promises the finest weather of the summer to date. On Monday, two days before the first day of the first Test, the next round of Championship matches gets under way, including four in the first division. At Chester-le-Street, Durham – guided to third in the table by Paul Collingwood – take on a Derbyshire side that is boosted by the return of last season's leading wicket-taker Tony Palladino from long-term injury, and is showing signs of becoming more competitive. Down at Uxbridge, fourth-placed Middlesex, still smarting after being spanked by Yorkshire at Lord's, play current champions Warwickshire. Not many would have predicted the Bears would go into the second half of the season eighth in the nine-team division with only one win to their name, and the return to fitness and form of bowlers of the calibre of Keith Barker and Boyd Rankin suggests they will finish the season nearer the top of the table than the bottom. Over at Taunton, Somerset play Sussex, sixth against second. Somerset skipper Marcus Trescothick reckons his tall young fast bowler Jamie Overton will play for England within two years, and the prospect of seeing him hurry the in-form Sussex batsman Luke Wright will draw many to the West Country. Back in the capital, seventh-placed Surrey – like Derbyshire yet to win a game – take on inconsistent Nottinghamshire in fifth, a game which offers one of the last chances to see Ricky Ponting in any form of cricket, and the prospect of seeing James Taylor ensuring he remains firmly in the selectors' minds by adding to his already impressive weight of runs this season. Not too shabby a selection of alternative attractions to the match at Trent Bridge, and that's before you consider the meeting between Division Two leaders Northamptonshire and Lancashire, second in the table, which starts the same day. Yorkshire, leading the Championship and resting players from one-day competition to give themselves the best chance of winning the title they covet above all others in their 150th anniversary year, happen to be missing this round: they're back in four-day action the following week against Derbyshire at the lovely Chesterfield ground. As an aside, it is a shame those who decry the structure and presentation of the County Championship were not at Scarborough last month, when, in unreliable weather, crowds of approaching 3,000 were present on each day of the Championship match against Nottinghamshire. Or that instead of going to a match in April, they go to a match during the summer holidays, when the average age of those attending offers less opportunity to make jokes about advertisements for retirement homes. Be that as it may, however, one way or another there are matches of considerable interest in just about every week before the final round of games starts on 24 September. By which time of course the Ashes will be long since over: the last Test starts on 21 August, with the first half of September taken up by one-day internationals. My point? Simply a gentle reminder that if the Test series proves disappointing because it is insufficiently competitive, or the narrow media focus becomes wearisome, high class and fiercely competitive cricket featuring international cricketers alongside aspiring international cricketers can be watched all over the country. At a reasonable cost in attractive grounds where the facilities vary from good to excellent. And that there will be plenty who will be there, thoroughly enjoying every moment. For those looking for international alternatives over the next few weeks, incidentally, the fare is relatively sparse, being confined to one-day internationals. There's an on-going triangular series involving West Indies, India and Sri Lanka, and Sri Lanka then have an attractive looking series against the South Africans. Slightly less attractively, India's exhausted cricketers must wonder quite why they are being sent to play a series in Zimbabwe. • This is an extract from the Spin, the Guardian's free weekly cricket email. To sign up, click here. 