 The multi-million dollar Indian Premier League suffered its first major embarrassment last night when one of the floodlights at Kolkata's famous Eden Gardens failed just as the fourth game of the competition, between Kolkata Knight Riders and Deccan Chargers, was nearing a gripping climax. In front of a packed house of almost 100,000 which included Shah Rukh Khan, the Knight Riders' Bollywood actor owner, the lights went out for 20 minutes, prompting comical speculation that the Bengali city's IPL debut would finish as a non-rain-affected tie under Duckworth-Lewis - two names this tournament would have paid plenty of money not to see after its high-octane start on Friday. The power returned in time for David Hussey to inspire the Knight Riders to their second win of the competition with an over to spare, despite a dreadful pitch that threatened to turn strokeplay into a lottery. There must have been concerns at Sony Max, the broadcasters covering the competition in India, that the match would not be completed before 8pm. That was the scheduled start time for the day's other game between the Mumbai Indians and Bangalore Royal Challengers at the Wankhede Stadium, but in the event the television executives need not have worried. Capturing the chaotic mood of the day, debris from a firework display rained down on the outfield and caused the start there to be delayed by seven minutes as groundstaff cleared up the mess. It was the second irritation of the evening for a capacity crowd of 40,000 following the news that local hero Sachin Tendulkar would miss the match with a groin strain. But concerns over the first two days of the competition that fans were failing to identify with teams mainly comprising overseas stars, big-name Indians - many from out of town - and local unknowns, were dispelled by a partisan display from the people of Mumbai. They left disappointed, however, as the Royal Challengers, thumped all over the place by Brendon McCullum on Friday, squeezed home with two balls to spare thanks to a superb performance with the ball from Zaheer Khan (4-0-17-2) and some towering blows from their South African wicketkeeper Mark Boucher, who finished with 39 not out off 19 deliveries. The second of his two sixes, off Ashish Nehra, rebounded off the stadium's roof over long-on as the crowd watched in stunned silence. Other overseas stars have enjoyed mixed fortunes so far. On Saturday Shane Warne's Rajasthan Royals were outclassed by the Delhi Daredevils, who won by nine wickets courtesy of some miserly bowling from the 38-year-old Glenn McGrath, who produced the first IPL maiden. Earlier, his Australian compatriot Mike Hussey crashed nine sixes in his unbeaten 114 from 54 balls to inspire Chennai Super Kings to a 33-run win over Kings XI Punjab in Mohali. But last night's game was the closest of the five to date, and it will do little to dissuade the England and Wales Cricket Board chairman, Giles Clarke, present at the Wankhede, that an English version of the IPL is the way ahead. Clarke and David Collier, the ECB chief executive, have been in India over the past few days as part of a fact-finding mission, and England's ties with a form of the game they invented five years ago were strengthened when emerged that it could yet host the inaugural Twenty20 Champions League in October, a tournament that would include the world's best domestic teams. India, naturally, remains a possible alternative. 