 Preamble Hello. England are in danger of making a game of this: they were 149 for two at tea, with Ian Bell on 58 and Kevin Pietersen on 36. So far it has followed a very similar pattern to the final Test of the 2002-03 series, when England were also 4-0 down, so expect Andy Caddick to hobble into view on Saturday morning and take a matchwinning seven-for on an exploding pitch. The match situation is of secondary importance, however, to the ongoing bet between Lawrence Booth and Barry Glendenning as to whether Bell will make 300 runs in the series: £20 and a whole lot of pride. Bell needs 10 more runs. "Two more hits and Glendenning's buying me breakfast!" chirps Booth.  53rd over: England 149-2 (Bell 58, Pietersen 36) It's McGrath (15-3-45-0) to begin the final, 150-minute session. It's standard, 44mph, corridor-of-uncertainty fare to Bell, and a maiden. "Happy Happy Joy Joy, surely?" says Dianne van Dulken, cocking a snook at my Bauhaus collection. "You, I mean. Here you are after two sessions with only two wickets down. Is it all joy and morris dancing around the Guardian office?" Oh yeah, Booth and I are delirious. We're gonna lose this 4-1! 4-1! 54th over: England 153-2 (Bell 60, Pietersen 38) Four low-risk singles from Warne's first over after tea, with both batsmen using their feet to get down the track. "Is it just me, or do the number of female correspondents to the OBO skyrocket when Booth is on?" says Neil Stork-Brett. "Maybe TopShop could stock a range of 'Groupie' merchandise?" Why stop there: we could have the Boothy and Beefy dolls for a start eh? Eh? Ah. 55th over: England 154-2 (Bell 61, Pietersen 38) If this pitch does what Sydney pitches usually do - breaks up big-time - England are in a cracking position. In fact, they might already by marginal favourites. Bell works McGrath into the leg side for a single to move within seven of making Lawrence Booth a very happy man. "He spends twenty quid on breakfast??" gulps Dianne van Dulken. "That is one enormous coffee, Lawrence. Rob, I think you need to talk to him about his caffeine addiction." You know the old saying Dianne: people in Relentless houses shouldn't throw stones. 56th over: England 155-2 (Bell 62, Pietersen 38) For all Warne's mind games, I think Bell has played him very well in this series. He seems to have got over his problem with the slider - you hear, that fate? - and he has been courageous enough to use his feet regularly. As he does in that over, when he gets the last ball down the ground for a single. Six more Belly, keep it together. "Provoked by OBOers' discussion re McGrath and the fact that the Liverpool Boot Room's secret was to field Dalglish + 10 gargoyles, I present an Uglies XI to take on any group of pretty boys in world cricket," says professional looker Gary Naylor. "Hayden, Gibbs, Punter, Kallis, Symonds, Chanderpaul, Gilchrist, Pollock, Hoggy, Ntini, Kaneria. Let's see Ramps and co beat them." With an ugly stick? Ho-honk! 57th over: England 159-2 (Bell 66, Pietersen 38) It's been sedate stuff since tea, with McGrath and Warne imposing one last strangehold, just in case everyone had forgotten the joys of being unable to breathe. McGrath then negates all of the above by dropping one short and wide that Bell cuts past point for four to bring up the century partnership - in which Bell has been the dominant partner. It's all so quiet out there that David Lloyd is going on about bondage masks. Booth senses the moment and whips out the new OBO Gimp Mask range for 2007. Pretty good. 58th over: England 164-2 (Bell 70, Pietersen 39) He's done it! Ian Bell moves to a magnificent unbeaten 70, his first in Tests, and earns Booth £20 in the process. It was a rank long-hop from Warne, and Bell rocked back to lash it through the covers for four. Booth is now doing a celebratory lap of GU Towers wearing nothing but a childlike grin. What will he spend that £20 on? "Re Neil Stork-Brett's observations on feminine cricketing literacy, I was rather keen on Mike Adamson, despite his insistence on calling himself Michelle and his complete reluctance to publish any of my suggestions to Clare and Sunil on uses for their kitchen utensils," says Kate McDonald. "Let's see how Rob goes." Like you wouldn't belie- ah, sorry. WICKET! England 166-3 (Pietersen c Hussey b McGrath 41) Idiotic cricket from Pietersen, and that's 900 international wickets for McGrath. It should also be 900 lashes for Pietersen. Earlier in the over he was lucky when McGrath saw him coming down the pitch and dug in a short one, with Pietersen top-edging a pull not far short of deep square-leg. But that didn't stop KP charging down the track later in the over; McGrath saw him coming and dropped it short again, but Pietersen couldn't resist and pulled it straight to midwicket, where Hussey took a good, leaping catch. That was unbelievably shabby cricket from Pietersen: imagine being bounced out by Glenn McGrath! 59th over: England 166-3 (Bell 70, Collingwood 0) McGrath has a big shout for LBW against Collingwood with a ball that swung late to beat the forward defensive. Just outside the line. "If Bell is out in the next 2 overs it will be ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT!" says Clare Davies. 60th over: England 167-3 (Bell 71, Collingwood 0) I'm still reeling from the sheer stupidity of Pietersen's dismissal. It would have been bad enough in isolation, but after he'd had a warning earlier in the over it was just preposterous. Anyway, Warne is probing away at Tough Guy Collingwood, who defends diligently. I need some Relentless. "Booth?" sniffs Kathy Stodart. "No, us girls go for Smyth all the way. For me it's the exciting challenge of only understanding every fifth sentence he writes, and getting none of his cultural references." Cultural? Sentences? Eh? WICKET! England 167-4 (Bell b McGrath 71) Two in five balls for McGrath! It was a fine off-cutter which nipped back through a sizeable gate to hit the top of off stump as Bell pushed forward. Almost identical to McGrath's dismissal of Bell at Lord's last summer, and England are in a hole now on a good wicket. And the brilliant McGrath - Glenn Donald Effing McGrath - has put them there. 61st over: England 170-4 (Collingwood 0, Flintoff 3) Flintoff gets off the mark by pinging McGrath through midwicket for three. "I'm surprised you can get a breakfast for just £20 in Clerkenwell," says Gary Naylor. You can get a whole lot more if you venture up the road to the more, a-hem, salubrious parts of Kings Cross. Twenty bottles of warm White Lightning, for a start. 62nd over: England 175-4 (Collingwood 0, Flintoff 8) I'd be inclined to get Clark back on for Warne, to have a pop at Collingwood in particular. Ponting isn't, however, and Flintoff chops a short one from Warne from four. "He's setting him up for the flipper," says Booth, and the next ball is indeed the flipper. "Bell out and it's entirely your fault! Rob," says Clare Davies. "Why did you do that? I'm now crying and inconsolable. I think I might hate you."  63rd over: England 177-4 (Collingwood 0, Flintoff 10) Flintoff cover-drives McGrath for a couple to continue his perky start. He's best when he plays positively - I learnt that from Ian Botham - but at the back of his mind will be the absurdly long tail that begins at the fall of the next wicket. 64th over: England 183-4 (Collingwood 5, Flintoff 11) Collingwood whips a Warne full-toss to leg for four to get off the mark, with the aid of a comedy sprawl on the boundary from McGrath, 94.  65th over: England 192-4 (Collingwood 5, Flintoff 20) Brett Lee replaces McGrath, and Flintoff leans back to welt his second ball through the covers for four. He looks in decent touch, writes Smyth as Flintoff is beaten by a cracker outside off stump. Then Lee overpitches and is lashed through the off side for four more. "Are you drunk?" says Kate McDonald, which says it all really. 66th over: England 198-4 (Collingwood 5, Flintoff 26) With the horse preparing to bolt, or at least scoot off for a bit before going lame for no particular reason, Clark comes on for Warne. And Flintoff just launches him imperiously over midwicket for six! That was a magnificent, effortless shot. He and Collingwood could put on 150 here. "Just because you and Clare saw off the last two batsmen with your ill-judged comments, it doesn't mean that all is lost," says Martin Warren, talking about Davies and Smyth as if they're some sort of married couple, one of whom inexplicably refers to himself in the third person. "I predict a 150-run partnership between Collingwood and Flintoff if you two could just resist jinxing it." 67th over: England 201-4 (Collingwood 8, Flintoff 26) Beefy, for only the 944th times in this series, talks about the importance of somebody like Andrew Flintoff trying to hit his way into form. All well and good, Mr Botham, but we're not letting you off that disgraceful smear at Trevor Hohns in 1989 that easily. "For this series, will the Guardian be publishing an OBO highlights book?" asks Gary Naylor. "Well, a one-page handout really, or would that provoke your rumoured demise?" My rumoured demise? Eh? 68th over: England 205-4 (Collingwood 12, Flintoff 26) Cracking shot from Collingwood, who drives his nemesis Clark sweetly past the prowling Sideshow Symonds at mid-off for four. "Collingwood off-drive shock," says Booth, proving once and for all that, whatever Jimmy Carr can do, a cricket in-joke can do better. Clark's response is outrageously good, a fast leg-break that ripped past the outside edge.  69th over: England 206-4 (Collingwood 12, Flintoff 27) Just as Shane Warne could sex up a game of bingo, probably with a comedy inflatable, so Collingwood could sex down a scene from Eyes Wide Shut. He is pretty becalmed at the moment and plays out a maiden from Lee there but, if England are four down at the close, they will not care if Collingwood has 12 from 744 balls. 70th over: England 207-4 (Collingwood 12, Flintoff 28) Bingo! Warne (13-0-43-0) is on after just two overs from Clark, and begins with a ridiculously optimistic LBW appeal against Flintoff. Thankfully for England it's Aleem Dar rather than Rudi Koertzen who's umpiring, so it's not out. Later in the over Warne beats Tough Guy with a beauty that drifted onto middle stump and then tore past the outside edge.  71st over: England 212-4 (Collingwood 12, Flintoff 33) All six of England's batsmen have got a start today - every one has batted for a minimum of 30 balls - which makes this score a little frustrating. Still, it beats 157 all out. That's pretty profound, that. Anyway, in that over Flintoff has a leaden-footed carve at Clark and the ball flies through the vacant third-slip area for four. Which is about how many emails I've had this session. Doesn't anyone have any tips on bands, or baldness, or something? "England had no hesitation about batting first on this surface," says Ian Botham. The same Ian Botham who earlier moaned incessantly about England's decision to bat first. 72nd over: England 221-4 (Collingwood 20, Flintoff 34) Flintoff has a grope at a wider, flighted leg-break from Warne and is beaten. But while Warne has bowled some crackers today, he's also bowled some filth: later in the over he floats down successive full-tosses to Collingwood, who lashes both to the fence, one to square leg, one to midwicket. "Hi Rob. Any news on the close of play time today?" asks Wayne Trotman in Turkey, kindly adding his own quotation marks and stuff. There's an hour's play left.  73rd over: England 224-4 (Collingwood 22, Flintoff 35) "Time to resurrect the kitchen utensils discussion, Rob!" says Kate McDonald. I have no idea what she's talking about. "If Clare and Sunil are still awake I had very pertinent points to be made about combining pickle grabbers, apple corers and Brett Lee. But did anyone listen to me? Noooo." As someone didn't once say, this isn't Frasier Crane. I'm not listening. I am really. No, really. 74th over: England 226-4 (Collingwood 23, Flintoff 36) It's the calm before the new-ball storm; it's due in six overs' time. Three singles from that Warne over.  75th over: England 231-4 (Collingwood 23, Flintoff 41) Another fine shot from Flintoff, who times Clark through straight midwicket for his fifth four. He really does look in the mood here, which makes one of us. "Be so kind as to tell Kate that I, for one (dunno about Clare), am still awake but it is you that is being obdurate," says Sunil. Eh?  76th over: England 231-4 (Collingwood 23, Flintoff 41) Warne has bowled fairly poorly today, bottling it on the big stage once again, and Collingwood comfortably repels that over. Four more to the new ball, and it is absolutely imperative that England don't lose another wicket tonight. If they do, they'll be five down. "Rob, you'd be kind to mention my alertness somehow, as I wouldn't like Kate to think I was slacking on the job," says Clare Davies. "God knows what use she'd find for the apple-corer then!" You see, you start an innocent discussion of kitchen utensils and Davies turns it into some kinky fetish-fest. It's. Just. Not. Cricket. 77th over: England 231-4 (Collingwood 23, Flintoff 41) Symonds is on to bowl some medium pace, and it will be an absolute sickener if he gets a wicket. He doesn't, but he does get a maiden. That's four minutes we won't be getting back. "Win a trip to Paris," says eFlyer Newsletter. 78th over: England 233-4 (Collingwood 24, Flintoff 42) "Can I refer Kate and co to my contribution at the 56th over please?" says Gary Naylor. "It's too early in the morning for this stuff - my heart can't take it." What's Relentless got to do with anything? 79th over: England 233-4 (Collingwood 24, Flintoff 42) I'd be tempted to give the new ball to McGrath and Clark, but I'm sure it will be McGrath and Lee as usual. One over to go after that Symonds maiden. Here's Michael Meagher. "I have an American friend here in New York who likes to say that someone is showing good character by saying, for example, 'He's being very cricket about things.' Good Irishman that I am, I may know nothing about cricket but I know a thing or two about the English language and have tried to explain to her the error of her ways. However, coming up with an alternative expression is not that easy. 'He's being a good egg' perhaps?" He's a righteous dude? 80th over: England 234-4 (Collingwood 25, Flintoff 42) "Awwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww yes Shane," says Adam Gilchrist, and if there's a silver lining to Warne's retirement, it's that we won't hear that particular nasal concoction anymore. Mind you, "Awwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww yes Stuey" has an extra syllable, so it'll be even worse. Warne's average for the series is 31.61, and England would certainly have taken that at the start of the series. Bad light ends play for the day As soon as Ricky Ponting lines up Brett Lee for a late burst, the umpires offer the light to the England batsmen, who predictably and correctly decide to do one. It's been marginally Australia's day, I'd say, but England will be reasonably happy having won an important toss. If Collingwood (25*) and Flintoff (42*) can get in and survive the second new ball tomorrow, they can go on and post a potentially decisive total in excess of 400. Thanks for your emails today; it's been very. 