 When I studied the French Revolution, I was quite fond of Robespierre. Now, without quite siding with the Bourbons, I am less taken with the Terror. It must be age. And so it is I find myself out of temper with what is happening to cricket, a game I have adored since I was about eight. So far I have more or less ignored the Indian Premier League and the Indian Cricket League. It was only a few weeks ago that I managed to work out which was the official one (IPL, backed by world cricket's governing body), and which the unofficial (ICL). The politics of who was to be allowed to play for what and when was too tedious to spend more than 10 seconds considering. But now, with the IPL kicking off (a soccer term is surely appropriate), it is time to take a stand, before the ancien regime is consigned to history. Mike Brearley, former England captain and wise cricketing head, made a speech at the Wisden dinner recently in which he argued that Twenty20, the shortened form of the game played in the new Indian leagues, should not be seen as a bastardised form of the game and that traditional cricketing skills were needed to succeed in it. Others, even the reliably reactionary Michael Henderson, have noted that money is always what has made the game go round; that, were the "amateur" WG Grace playing today, he would be first on the plane to Bangalore, no doubting sitting next to Kevin Pietersen if that ersatz Englishman (currently contracted to do the bidding of the England management) was free to travel. It is odd to find oneself to the right, if that term means anything in this context, of Henderson, and disconcerting to disagree with the great Brearley. Indeed, the only person I have seen quoted as taking quite so reactionary line as mine on the curse of Twenty20 is Trevor Bailey, the 84-year-old former England all-rounder, who makes Prince Philip look like a model of progressive thought. But so it will have to be. Trevor and me, contra mundum. The truth about Twenty20 is that it is baseball under another banner. The game has none of the grace or unpredictability of long-form cricket. Designed for TV companies and spectators who combine a short attention span with a taste for popcorn, it is all about getting a game over with in a neat three hours. It is one tenth as long as a Test match and one hundredth as interesting. A Test is about the gradual swelling of interest, perhaps building to an unforgettable climax such as at Headingley in 1981 (Botham's finest hour, when England beat Australia after following on), or Trent Bridge in 1998 (the great Croft-Fraser rearguard to save the match and turn the series against South Africa). Drama, narrative, context - these are what made these encounters great. They are not words you will ever hear used about Twenty20. Tests offer the hope of something Tolstoyan; Twenty20 is Jeffrey Archer. The names of the city-based Indian Premier League teams tell you all you need to know about the competition: the Kolkata Knight Riders, the Rajasthan Royals, the Chennai SuperKings. They sound like brands of cigarettes. Perhaps they are brands of cigarettes: the league is underwritten by disgustingly large sums of money (which, even with India's economic miracle, might be better-off spent on that country's slums) and a brazen commercialism that would not be out of place in that dismal institution on which it is clearly based - our football Premiership, with its tedious oligopoly of ultra-rich clubs and ill-behaved, overpaid players. That, now, is where cricket is heading, and it's probably too late to stop the rot. The whinging of the England players, that they have not been able to jump on the Indian gravy train, has been dismal to hear. You would think if the choice were between representing your country or turning out for the Chennai SuperKings, there would be a fairly unequivocal vote in favour of the former. But no: it seems that unless these bloated superstars are able to do both, they may in future forgo their England contracts and relocate to the subcontinent. India is fast losing interest in Test cricket. On their tour of the subcontinent next year, England is likely to play only two Tests, which will be pointless and narrativeless, no more than a going-through-the-motions to satisfy the International Cricket Council. England used to play five, sometimes six, Tests on a glorious four-month odyssey across India. No time for that now, of course, with so many pointless one-day matches and celebrity appearances to fit in. There is talk of a breakaway from the ICC, so that the best players can more or less do what they want and rake in as much as they can. American billionaire Allen Stanford, who already underwrites much of West Indian cricket, is offering $100m for England to play five Twenty20 matches against a West Indian "all-star" team. (So much for the credit crunch and global downturn.) The English Cricket Board, incapable of giving any sort of moral lead, appears to be very keen on this, as a way of buying off English players unhappy at being excluded from the Indian beanfeast. Just tell the disaffected to take their chance in the casino, and pick players for England who really want to represent their country. And so it goes on: more money, more empty sensationalism, a game that gets ever further away from the subtle contest between bat and ball that cricket is supposed to be, where bowling people out is the central aim and a hard-fought draw a perfectly dignified - indeed, wonderfully satisfying, mocking as it does the idea that life has any true resolution - result. Trevor and I are now retiring to the pub to talk over old times. If the pub hasn't been closed down, of course, or turned into a nightclub. Stephen Moss is editor of Wisden Anthology: Cricket's Age of Revolution 1978-2006. 