Virat Kohli led India to a resounding 4-0 victory but there were some bright spots for England, most notably the emergence of teenager Haseeb Hameed  By Gary Naylor for the 99.94 Cricket Blog, part of the Guardian Sport Network 
 Alastair Cook (369 runs at 37) For such a consummate player of spin, he got out too often to the wrong shots, the bat coming cross the ball instead of meeting it straight down its path. Half of his dismissals were LBW or bowled, modes that are creeping into his game as he ages. Perhaps, turning 32 on Christmas Day, his eyes might be tiring a little, tiny delays in picking up line and length leading to problems with foot movement and balance – and slip catching. His captaincy came in for much criticism and he could have attacked more at times (leg slip should have been posted for every delivery by a spinner) and he was often curiously reluctant to bowl Ben Stokes, but I’d suggest that any captain in the world, given this attack, would have gone down 4-0, so captaincy hardly mattered in the end. Haseeb Hameed (219 runs at 44) He took on one of the hardest jobs in cricket and made it look, well, if not easy, then certainly natural, with technique, attitude and temperament that appears too good to be true in a teenager. He can expect plenty of short stuff in the future, but has tenacity to burn and a dedication to improvement that will surely produce a method that works for him. There will be struggles to come, but he can take enormous confidence from a wonderful start to his Test career. It was also splendid to see him embrace touring, watching on from the stands with his family, a smile never far from his face. Keaton Jennings (167 runs at 42; 5-1-20-0 average n/a, economy 4.0) He cashed in with a century after being dropped on 0 in his first knock and backed that up by top-scoring in two of his first four innings in Test cricket. Like most left-handers, he fancies it outside off stump and will need to learn to rein in that instinct for half an hour or so until the feet are moving properly and head is well across towards the ball. He’ll probably find himself at No3 in the immediate future and might want to take a leaf from India’s No3 in terms of adding strike rotating singles and a willingness to hit the bad ball very hard to his game. But a few scoreboards showing England 145-1 at Tea on the first day of a Test would be very welcome indeed. Ben Duckett (18 runs at 6) Many of us wondered if he could survive with the game he showed in Bangladesh and we didn’t have to wait long for the answer. Should definitely continue to play T20Is and probably ODIs too, but has to find a way to get into Division One of the County Championship and then bat through at least two sessions against canny red ball operators. A few long sessions on the bowling machine with the single objective of playing every ball under his eyes would be a good place to start the long road back to the Test XI. Joe Root (491 runs at 49; 16-2-57-2 average 28.5, economy 3.6) Got in and got on with it as usual and looked the class of the field when England were batting. Scores of 53, 78, 77 and 88 (and even his series-opening 124) can hardly be deemed failures, but, in India, that means (more often than not) that another player has to better that score if the Test is to be won. The daddy hundreds really count on pitches like these and he couldn’t go on to post any. OK, that’s harsh criticism, but descriptions such as “England’s finest post-war batsman” have been bandied around about him, so the standards to which he is held are sky high – maybe unfairly so. Moeen Ali (381 runs at 42; 188.1-21-649-10 average 64.9, economy 3.4) What a curio he is! He can bat like a dream, a David Gower resurrected, and then play a shot that would embarrass even him (and Gower knew a bit about getting out to crazy, lazy strokes). His bowling can go the same way – the jaffa suddenly turning up between the half volleys and long hops. He copped some unfair stick about some spells though, because the batsmen to whom he was bowling were pretty good and would simply make length (and sometimes line) their decision with positive footwork allied to extreme confidence. The sad fact remains that it seems unlikely that England will take wickets quickly enough on turning pitches or control runs on flat tracks if Moeen is expected to deliver 15 overs or so per day. So, is his batting enough to justify a role as a change bowler only? For such a wonderful player to watch and such a dedicated team man, one has to hope that it is. Jonny Bairstow (352 runs at 44; 11 catches, 2 stumpings) Keeping wicket and batting with the expectation of scoring the runs of a specialist is a tough ask in India with so much standing up to spinners in heat and humidity. It is a testament to his fitness that, at the end of a long year of unprecedented success, he seldom looked tired (though he must have felt it). The keeping, for all the stats piling up, is still scrappy and there are too many relatively straightforward chances missed and too few hard chances taken. 4-0 is a time for home truths to be spoken and “you’re our Five Jonny, but Jos is getting the gloves and doing Seven” might have to be said if the team is to progress. Ben Stokes (345 runs at 38; 106.2-16-357-8 average 44.6, economy 3.4) He scored 227 of his 345 runs in his first three innings and was underbowled by Cook throughout the series, especially when England needed to start sessions with a bang. Given his workload, he must have a few aches and pains but was he carrying something more restricting? More than any other England player, he needs his workload managed with sympathy through rotation, not through extended periods in the covers – strangely, he was often not found in the slips, despite being England’s best man in the cordon since Ian Botham. Jos Buttler (154 runs at 38.5) He looked a far better batsman than when he last played Test cricket, the feet less anchored, the defensive game more rounded. Surely this huge talent cannot be confined to white ball cricket only, but if he is to be a game-changer at No7 (his most natural position) then he pretty much has to take the gloves. Will that slay the golden goose that has been Jonny Bairstow in 2016? It’s a risk worth taking. Liam Dawson (66 runs at 66; 43-4-129-2 average 64.5, economy 3.0) Liam Dawson showed great sangfroid in dropping straight into a Test team and batting as if it were midsummer at the Rose Bowl with Hampshire 270-4, particularly after a second ball ear-ringer on the helmet. He bowled with discipline too, earning more respect from India’s batsmen than England’s other spin options. But there’s a reason why David Hussey never played a Test for Australia, and Dawson is probably his inferior in batting, bowling and fielding. Chris Woakes (70 runs at 14; 77-16-244-3 average 81.3, economy 3.2) The quicker he bowled, the quicker the ball arrived in the middle of the home team bats. After a golden run of form, he had neither the pace nor the movement to trouble the Indian batsmen on home tracks – hardly the first to learn that harsh lesson. He has enough credit in the bank to stay a crucial member of England’s fast bowling squad, from whom three or four will be chosen for each Test. Adil Rashid (113 runs at 14; 232.2-19-861-23 average 37.4, economy 3.7) Adil Rashid suffers a bit for the profligacy of his team-mates in that his (standard issue leg spinner) boundaries look worse because there are fours and sixes coming at the other end too. He took plenty of wickets (and not just tailenders) with sharp spun leg breaks and a mystifyingly underused, largely unpicked googly, but too often I found myself saying, “Well, I could have hit that for four,” the bad balls being really bad balls. Whether England can get Moeen and Rashid in the same XI outside the subcontinent is a tricky one to call – like setting a field for a long hop, it feels like a decision rooted in distrust, especially if Joe Root can fiddle a few overs when required. And, just when his batting gifts looked completely squandered in a series in which late middle order runs were crucial, he made a lovely 60 in Chennai to remind us what we’d been missing. Zafar Ansari (36 runs at 12; 43-3-163-3 average 54, economy 3.8) For Surrey, he has played sometimes as a top order batsman and sometimes as a specialist spinner. Unfortunately, in his two matches in this series, he bowled like a top order batsman and batted like a specialist spinner. Stuart Broad (44 runs at 11; 89-24-248-8 average 31.0, economy 2.8) England missed his nous and cutters in the two Tests he sat out injured and his figures do not do him justice in the three he played, he can take solace from the thought that he was the only England bowler not comprehensively outbowled by his opposite number. Seemingly out of the picture for white ball cricket, is there a chance that he might take the captaincy of the Test XI? It wouldn’t harm the gate receipts Down Under next winter for sure. Gareth Batty (1 run at 1; 19.2-0-65-0 average n/a, economy 3.4) Gareth Batty is not the new Shaun Udal after all. He did not embarrass himself by any means, but his captain didn’t seem to want to throw him the ball – as if he were a man who still hasn’t paid his subs in July. Jake Ball (45 runs at 11; 41-7-140-1 average 140, economy 3.4) It was a tough gig for the wholehearted trier from Notts, the pitches not really suiting his “hit the deck” style, although he did try a few cutters (that we could pick on the TV screens). Ravi Bopara – eight inches shorter, 30 clicks slower, 10 times as cunning – might have been a better option. Hells bells, if Gareth Batty got a game, why not Darren Stevens! James Anderson (20 runs at 5; 79-17-214-4 average 53.5, economy 2.7) He was given plenty of respect from the Indian batsmen, but seldom got the ball to swing conventionally or reverse and he didn’t seam it much either. His 12 wickets in four Tests in 2012 now feels a long time ago. Murali Vijay (357 runs at 45) After England opened the series with 537, he made 124 in over eight hours, a crucial ship-steadying innings. He looked in good nick throughout, but cashed in only once more, in Mumbai. His tactic of attacking the first ball of a spinner’s over worked well, his straight sixes particularly sweetly hit. Gautam Gambhir (29 runs at 15) Already feels like part of a past generation of Indian batsman – a fine servant whose time has almost certainly gone. KL Rahul (233 runs at 58) KL Rahul was in and out of the XI with injury but, once he found his feet at Chennai, he produced one of the daddy hundreds that proved the difference between the sides. He was desperately disappointed to miss out on a double century after a nervous loss of concentration, but it was the 199 runs scored that mattered, rather than the one that got away. Parthiv Patel (195 runs at 65; 11 catches 2 stumpings) Back in the team after a long absence, he seized his chance well, batting with fluency especially at the top of the order against the seamers. His glovework was scrappy at times (what keeper in world cricket isn’t these days?) but it was adequate for what was required. Very much lived up to his captain’s desire for every player to put the team first by opening in Chennai in place of the injured Vijay immediately after keeping for 157 overs. With his place on the line, that’s an impressive show of attitude and confidence. Cheteshwar Pujara (401 runs at 50) A more aggressive batsmen this time round than in previous showings against England, Cheteshwar Pujara hit centuries in the first two Tests, proving the value of his orthodox defensive technique now allied to more ambitious strokeplay. After a period out of the side – and with young guns establishing their credentials – Pujara 2.0 has turned up at exactly the right time to lock down the No3 slot for the foreseeable future. Virat Kohli (655 runs at 109) Compelling in every element of his game, he made big runs with the bat (the ball pummelling a tattoo on the middle of his bat throughout the series) and captained his side with tremendous energy and skill. Started the series by standing on his own stumps, but didn’t put a foot wrong thereafter until he failed in Chennai, only to watch, almost paternalistically, the new generation of Indian batsman win their spurs. He really, really wanted to win this match-up and wasn’t afraid to show it – and that matters, not just for Indian Test cricket, but for Test cricket as a whole. Karun Nair (320 runs at 160; 1-0-4-0 average n/a, economy 4.0) Wise judges told me that the 25-year-old from Karnataka would go big once given a start. In Chennai, that forecast proved to be true in a record-shattering 303* in which he showed that he could graft early on, build an innings and then flog tiring bowlers all round the ground. We will be seeing a lot more of him in the future. Ajinkya Rahane (63 runs at 13) He looked out of sorts, especially when cleaned up by Adil Rashid’s googly like, well, like an Englishman. Injured, he ceded the vice-captaincy to R Ashwin, an unstoppable force at home, and will be looking over his shoulder at the men now in possession. He will be back, but the decision on whom to drop and when, is hardly an easy one for selectors with an embarrassment of riches. Ravichandran Ashwin (306 runs at 44; 307.1-45-847-28 average 30.3, economy 2.8) He eyed England’s left-handers like a cat with a cornered mouse, knowing they were his, only the time of their demise to be decided. Bowled a tight wicket-to-wicket line to the right-handers too, the subtle changes of flight, spin and speed placing him in the company of India’s legendary tweakers of any age. His carrom ball to trap Jonny Bairstow LBW in Mumbai was a thing of beauty, poor Jonny missing the delivery by feet rather than inches. Ashwin batted with the lazy elegance that prompts memories of VVS Laxman scoring vital runs in India’s powerhouse late middle order. And he still wasn’t Man of the Series! Wriddhiman Saha (49 runs at 12; 6 catches) All at sea with bat in hand and not much better with the gloves, he lost his place to the recalled Parthiv Patel, who immediately improved India’s batting and fielding units. Ravindra Jadeja (224 runs at 37; 290.1-67-672-26 average 25.8, economy 2.3) The man who makes things happen – a component all sides aspiring to greatness need. With ball in hand, he hustles through his overs, some balls spinning, some balls sliding, seldom giving much to hit. In the field, he bristles under his beard, a brilliant catcher and ground fielder, setting standards for a team that needs them. He walked to the wicket to replace his captain with his team still 79 runs behind in Mohali and biffed a momentum-shifting 90, before holing out going for the quick runs the match situation demanded. He’s not the most skilful bowler or the most technically correct batsman, but he is the most watchable cricketer in the side – possibly in the world. Jayant Yadav (221 runs at 74; 81.3-17-266-9 average 29.6, economy 3.3) What on earth is he doing at No9? Brought in to keep it tight as a support spinner, he delivered that job description to the letter and then batted like a dream to demoralise England’s bowling with an array of orthodox strokes and splendid concentration, even when discomfited by the short ball. He might need an injury or two to be selected overseas, but what a player to have as back-up to the spin twins in front of him. Amit Mishra (0 runs at 0; 75.5-12-275-5 average 55.0, economy 3.6) Rather like his opposite number, Rashid, he bowled too many release balls and too few jaffas when given his opportunities. In an age when bowlers look to apply a tourniquet of dot balls to strangle the scoring rate, his old-fashioned tossing it up above the eye line, looks a little out of place. Mohammed Shami (35 runs at 35; 103-22-252-10 average 25.2, economy 2.4) Flogging 10 wickets from three Tests on those pitches is an admirable return from a bowler who was quick and accurate, particularly with a short ball that was directed under the chin and seldom wasted in an unnecessary show of macho bravado. England’s senior seamers may have over 800 Test wickets between them, but Shami was the pick of the pacers. Bhuvneshwar Kumar (9 runs at 9; 17-1-60-1 average 60.0, economy 3.5) Back in the side to pitch it up and swing it, he extracted more movement than any other bowler and will look forward to future tours of England, where his method has found success in the past. Umesh Yadav (38 runs at 10; 143.5-23-464-8 average 58.0, economy 3.2) A big-hearted trier who bent his back all day long for his captain and whose figures do not reflect his contribution at all. He bowled 37 more overs then any seamer on either side and he deserved to celebrate the series win as much as anyone. Ishant Sharma (DNB; 31-8-59-3 average 19.7, economy 1.9) It’s always nice to roll up for the final Test of a series already secured, but the tall paceman justified his place with some accurate hit-the-deck bowling against a batting line-up who knew they were beaten. Incredibly, he’s still only 28! • This article appeared first on The 99.4 Cricket Blog• Follow Gary Naylor on Twitter 