 Lancashire desperately tried to maintain a brave face today despite a series of snubs from the England and Wales Cricket Board which raised serious questions about Old Trafford's future as a Test match ground. As things stand the second Test between England and New Zealand at the end of next month will be the last in the north-west until at least 2012. Lancashire were still struggling to come to terms with the disappointment of missing out on a match in next summer's Ashes series, after being outbid by Glamorgan, and discovered yesterday that they have also been overlooked for the visits of West Indies in 2010, and Sri Lanka and India in 2011. Old Trafford is England's second oldest Test ground after the Oval, staging 73 matches since 1884, and has not gone more than two years without a Test since 1946. They have been given some consolation with consecutive Twenty20 internationals during next summer's Ashes tour, and another one-day game against the Aussies in 2010, while there is still an outside chance that they could also stage a Test that year with one match and venue still to be confirmed. "After missing out on an Ashes Test Match, we are thrilled to be hosting Australia three times in two years," said Lancashire's chief executive Jim Cumbes. But Lancashire admitted that they have simply been outbid by counties such as Glamorgan, Hampshire and Durham. "A venue can bid whatever sums they wish, but somewhere in your business plan these costs have to be covered and ticket income is clearly a critical element," said their commercial director, Geoff Durbin. "We were aggressive with our proposals, for some games bidding double the fee we paid to host the 2005 Ashes Test. But a major focus for the club was to ensure that international cricket remained affordable for the north-west community and that we did not bid more than the club can afford ... although international cricket is essential to the well-being of Old Trafford as a world-class venue, we can't do it at any price." The snubs came less than 24 hours after Michael Cairns OBE, the county's new chairman after Jack Simmons decided to stand down, told the annual general meeting of members that the success of a £40m plan to redevelop Old Trafford is imperative to its future as an international venue. It is almost five years since Lancashire were offered the opportunity to move to a purpose-built stadium in Manchester. Despite an alternative offer from Wigan they eventually decided to stay at Old Trafford, with the first phase of redevelopment work due to start next January, although the major part of the project remains contingent on Trafford MBC granting planning permission to a new superstore for Tesco. It was revealed earlier today that Glamorgan would host the first Ashes Test next summer. The full schedule 2009 World Twenty20: Lord's; The Oval; Trent Bridge  npower Test matches v Zimbabwe: Lord's; Riverside  NatWest ODI v Zimbabwe: Headingley; Edgbaston; Bristol  npower Ashes Test matches v Australia: Cardiff; Lord's; Edgbaston; Headingley; The Oval  NatWest ODI v Australia: Rose Bowl; Lord's; The Oval; Lord's; Trent Bridge; Trent Bridge; Riverside  NatWest Twenty20 Internationals v Australia: Old Trafford (two matches)  Twenty20 finals day: Edgbaston  Friends Provident Trophy Final: Lord's 2010 Tests v Bangladesh: TBC; Headingley  ODIs v Bangladesh: Edgbaston; Trent Bridge; Bristol  Tests v West Indies: Lord's; Trent Bridge; Edgbaston; The Oval  ODIs v West Indies: Rose Bowl; The Oval; Headingley; Riverside; Lords  ODIs v Australia: Cardiff; Rose Bowl; The Oval; Lord's; Old Trafford  International Twenty20s: TBC  Twenty20 finals day: Rose Bowl  Friends Provident Trophy Final: Lord's 2011 Tests v Sri Lanka: Cardiff; Rose Bowl; Lord's  ODIs v Sri Lanka: Trent Bridge; Headingley; Edgbaston; The Oval; Old Trafford  Tests v India: Lord's; Trent Bridge; Edgbaston; The Oval  ODIs v India: Cardiff; Durham; Rose Bowl; The Oval; Lord's  International Twenty20s: Two from Headingley; Bristol; Old Trafford; Riverside  Twenty20 finals day: Riverside  Friends Provident Trophy Final: Lord's 