 It is 31 years now since Ian Botham produced what was then, and remains the most remarkable all-round performance in a history of Test cricket that will extend to 2,000 matches when England play India at Lord's in a few weeks time. In Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, Botham scored 114 in his only innings, sandwiched between bowling figures of six for 58 and seven for 48, or 13 for 106 in the match. In statistical terms, the performance itself is astonishing enough, but what makes it all the more remarkable is that it was achieved on the back of the most ferocious 48-hour bender that came in the aftermath of a particularly dismal tour of Australia, the sort of excessive indulgence, they say, that would have felled a rhinoceros. Beefy had, and still has for that matter, an apparently abnormal constitution that has allowed him to romp through a life which he always stresses is not dress rehearsal. His may be an extreme tale, but he was only at the top end of a culture that has always endured in cricket. The game was played hard but so was the downtime. Botham was an exceptional cricketer, of course, but how much did who he was dictate what he was as a cricketer and how much better might he have been in later years had he kept the excesses in check and maintained the sort of fitness levels that in the late 70s, when he was a lithe youth and before he began to balloon, made him the finest swing bowler the game has seen? Indeed, would he have conformed to the current England fitness demands, and, perhaps more importantly, what would have happened had he not? Would he have been indulged for his brilliance or told to buy in or shift out? The answer is not as obvious as might be thought. My suspicion (and I concede I may be wide of the mark here) is that he would have relished the physicality of it and recognised the levels of performance that would come from it, although I also doubt that he would admit to that. It is, though, a conundrum. Garry Sobers, another genius, was not known for his spartan existence. Would he have been better? Could he have been better? And what would be the career path of, say, Andrew Flintoff, had he been a young man today with ambitions to be an England cricketer. His excesses were indulged by Duncan Fletcher to the extent that in no small part his England captaincy was predicated on being a means of keeping him in check. The view within the England management team now is unequivocal. There is, they say, no cricketer who cannot improve their performance by being fitter and stronger. None. And it is their duty to recognise that and act accordingly. But now there is a problem, for while the ethos of the England team itself is extremely strong in this regard, this management group do not feel it should have to be in their primary remit to have to knock into physical condition players of ability who have not attained those standards while at their counties. In fact there is a real concern that some counties, a few of whom are still said to adhere to a strong drinking culture, are not putting in the work in this regard that would improve their own collective standards, never mind those who have ambition to play for England. Some of this is down to the individual. In general terms there are rewards in the game, even at county level, where cricketers of modest ability can earn six-figure contracts, that far outstrip even proportionally, the earnings of their predecessors. It provides a comfort zone where there is no need to go the extra mile to improve. The much-publicised case of Samit Patel is instructive, for no one would accuse Mike Newell, his county coach, of not being cognisant of the requirements and endeavouring to encourage him into what amounts to a lifestyle change. England do not see Patel as a player who will make or break the success of the side, but would like to have him around. Did he feel that this would happen regardless of his lifestyle? Finally, he has to some measure come round to their way of thinking. All that was required in the first instance was a sign of an upward trend to his fitness, something he was not able to provide until the aftermath of his austere regime in Australia last winter. Pictures of him before and after still look suspiciously similar and Andy Flower this week was at pains to stress that there is a lot of dedication and pain to be had at the hands of Huw Bevan, the England strength and conditioning coach, before he can begin to feel comfortable. In the meantime, those players and counties, not to mention fans and supporters, who believe that substandard levels of fitness are sufficient to carry them through, and point, as they tend to do, to Botham or Colin Milburn as extreme examples, would do well to re-examine their attitudes. Last time I looked there were no new Ian Bothams on the horizon while Milburn suffered a fatal heart attack at the age of 48. 