 Gradually the pieces are being placed in the jigsaw. Kevin Pietersen's News of the World column, appearing as an interview, has surely been one of the most anticipated bits of ghosting since Anne Boleyn was spotted walking the Bloody Tower with her head tucked under her arm. From what was generally suspected, in these pages at least, this much he has confirmed: that he had had issues with the coaching of Peter Moores for some time and advocated his removal; that he did not believe that he could captain the side in the Caribbean if Moores remained but that he bore no antipathy to a fellow who is "a fantastic guy"; that his views on the way ahead for the England team, meant only for the consumption of his employers and, in the course of conversation, a small coterie of friends, were subsequently leaked to the Daily Telegraph and not by the ECB; that he had support for his role from senior players, including Andrew Flintoff, and the new captain Andrew Strauss, although not necessarily for his desire to have Moores removed; that he is hoping to score a mountain of runs against West Indies and Australia; and that he has "unfinished business" with the captaincy. In the meantime he is looking forward to "being a soldier again". Further to that, though, his column (vetted by the ECB, such are many of the perversities of this business) says he felt let down by that body, which had asked for and received his strategy for the future but which accepted his resignation before it had been tendered, effectively firing him by email after a brief phone call. There had been conversations, too, about who might succeed Moores, should he go. And, like Sherlock Holmes and the dog that didn't bark, a further question was raised by the conspicuous absence of any mention of the Indian Premier League, following on from a statement last week that he was looking forward not just to the West Indies tour, which starts on Thursday week, but next summer's Ashes series. No mention of the West Indies' visit to England in the spring. The inference was that Pietersen, who had yet to sign a central contract, would freelance, making himself available for the entire IPL season and trusting in selectorial faith for the Australians. Pietersen had been on holiday in South Africa while composing his strategy for the Ashes year at the request of Hugh Morris, managing director of England, and the ECB chief executive, David Collier, and had scheduled a meeting in London for last Thursday, the day of his arrival back in England. "I had a meeting with Hugh Morris during the one-dayers in India," Pietersen explained, "and I had another meeting when I got back with ECB chairman, Giles Clarke, and I then had another meeting with Hugh and David Collier. Then I had another meeting with Hugh and Peter Moores and then I had another meeting with Collier . . . so I had loads of face-to-face meetings. "The last words from David Collier and Hugh Morris during the last Test match in India were for me to do a strategy plan as to how I wanted to take the English cricket team forward. Where we want to go, how as players we were going to win the Ashes, how as players we were going to win in the West Indies, what kind of people I felt were important in all three forms of the game. A full strategy on how we wanted to work, how the structure should be. It was them who asked me to do that." "They said we would meet again on 8 January in London," Pietersen continued. " I said I would come straight from the airport so we could have it in the morning but they said come in the afternoon. On New Year's Eve I sent the strategy email. On holiday, I wasn't myself – I was in a state. I was thinking, I was writing stuff down because I wanted to get this totally right for English cricket. After speaking to a couple of the senior players and some of the management, I really wanted to get this right for English cricket. In my email I said that I can't lead this team forward and take it to the West Indies if Peter Moores is coach. I did say that, yes." Yesterday Pietersen continued to pour oil on troubled waters. "I think everybody probably thought that I was holding a pistol to the ECB's head from South Africa stating 'I want this, I want that' but it wasn't [like that]," he told Sky News. "I'm not angry with anybody. I'm just bitterly hurt and disappointed that my character's been assassinated because I know I'm not a bad bloke." Pietersen reiterated that he harboured no ill will towards Moores, saying: "He's a fantastic guy. He's passionate about winning. I have absolutely no personal problem with Peter Moores. I just didn't feel that me and him could take the team forward." 