 Bit of rain around today so we're looking at plans to change domestic cricket. For updates from around the grounds, scroll down The counties are having their say on reorganisation of the county championship, writes David Hopps. The Professional Cricketers' Association is also surveying its members. Now, the Guardian's county blog gives you an opportunity to have your say. Counties must reply by 4 June on five potential options for the county championship. All options aim to reduce the amount of time given to the championship to create room for the Twenty20 cricket that is essential to the game's financial survival. The ECB considers the proposals on 23 June, with the executive board poised to make a decision on 6 July. But already plans have been thrown into chaos as the Test-match counties have formed an unofficial pressure group under the chairmanship of the Yorkshire chairman Colin Graves, who held emergency discussions with the ECB chairman Giles Clarke this week. With many counties under increasing financial pressure, and the Test-match counties pleading for additional revenue because of ambitious ground improvement plans, a move away from 16 four-day games and a greater emphasis on Twenty20 cricket is inevitable. Feedback from county cricket followers has been strongly against any American-style conference system. There is even a Facebook group in protest about the possibility – a rare example of county followers beginning to form themselves, if vaguely, into an online pressure group. These are the options in the consultation document: 1) A Premier Division of eight teams and Division One split into two regional pools of five teams. This idea is fast gaining favour. Premier Division sides play each other twice, making a total of 14 matches. Division One sides play each counties in their own pool twice, so maximizing the number of derby games, and counties in the other pool once, making up 13 games. 2) Retain the present system of two divisions of nine, but with reduced games. Just accept that there is no time for each county to play the others twice and get on with it. 3) Unapologetic Americanism. Three conferences of six teams each with end-of-season play-offs. No promotion and relegation and no top division, with sides drawn randomly. No information on whether candyfloss and Big Macs will be compulsory. Counties are taking this seriously, but they will face a supporters' revolt if they ever raise the energy. 4) More unapologetic Americanism – again three divisions of six, but with matches played over five days. It would therefore replicate Test cricket which might have appeal to some. But four-day cricket has always been popular with county players and coaches as a true test of ability. And the lower the standard, the shorter the length of game the players can justify. Can county cricketers really make five-day cricket remotely appealing? 5) The addition of three Minor Counties to expand the first-class counties to 21. This would enable them to be split into three divisions of seven with one-up, one-down, reducing matches to 12 games. Salary caps would be enforced, graded for each division, and transfer movement encouraged. But it is unlikely that three Minor Counties would want to join the championship, especially in the current financial climate and talenty – and the ECB's annual handout, currently about £1.7m - would be spread more thinly. Don't forget to vote. 3.18pm: Can someone explain to me, asks Vic Marks, why it is that the Test grounds believe that they should have a monopoly on any new Twenty20 competition? I understand one reason: the Test grounds have over-reached themselves. They may have been encouraged to do this by the ECB and as a consequence they may feel a little betrayed by the centre. They have spent millions on the basis that they will be hosting international cricket on a regular basis. But there are too many "Test" grounds and not enough big fixtures to go around. So there is a desperate scramble to recoup some money via some/any Twenty20 extravaganza. By why do the Test grounds assume that any Twenty20 extravaganza would not be suitable at Worcester, or Chelmsford - or indeed Taunton? Very often these grounds produce a better TV product, which is what matters so much nowadays. They offer a better stage; stands are more easily filled; it is easier to generate "atmosphere". To encapsulate the problem: I was at Cardiff last Sunday for a 40 over ground. That mammoth stand, which was full of people and excitement when Monty and Jimmy Anderson were playing their forward defensives against Australian, was completely empty. To save money they did not even bother to open it to cut the cost of stewarding. How will Cardiff, a sporadic international venue, balance the books? PS No play yet - just mizzle. 3pm: Andy Wilson at Old Trafford writes: Early tea, inspection at 3.40pm, possible start 4pm. Mopping up has started, although it's still raining. 1.40pm: Raining at Old Trafford, writes Andy Wilson, and shaping as a lengthy afternoon delay. Be interesting to see how any reforms to the Championship dovetail with a new Twenty20 competition? My conspiracy theory would be the eight-team Premier League ending up remarkably similar to a 10-team Twenty20 EPL - the Test grounds (Durham, Glam, Glos, Hants, Lancs, Middx, Notts, Warks, Yorks) plus one other. Who would get that 10th lucky ticket? All conjecture, of course. 1.10pm: Rain easing, almost stopped but the covers are still on, reports Vic Marks at Taunton. The presence of CMJ means that we keep an eye upon what's happening at Hove. Sussex are on the brink of another win, Monty has taken three wickets this morning, two of them, following the usual pattern, were lbws. Who, we wondered, is umpiring down there. Well, one of them is Graham Lloyd, Bumble's boy and an ex-Lancashire and England (for ODIs) player. He must have joined the list recently because I haven't spotted him before. Which set us thinking on the old chestnut about the genes and how important they must be in cricket - but then so is nurture, I suppose - and the number of current players who merely represent another generation of first-class cricketers. In this game there is, of course, a Compton; there is also a Masters, whose predecessor was not quite so prominent as Denis, but "Hod" plodded in for Kent a couple decades ago. Looking around the counties now there are many familiar names. Most of their fathers hit me for six. This list is not comprehensive - yet. In fact it's fairly random, but here goes ... Bairstow, Broad, Borrington, Compton, Gatting (a nephew), Hogg, Cobb, Maynard, Sidebottom, Jefferson, Wells (son of Alan is on the Sussex staff), Willey, Tremlett with Ealham and Butcher only just retired. No doubt there are more. Over to you ... 12.30pm: And a few other updates from the Second Division, writes Andy Wilson. Monty's taken a second wicket for Sussex to keep them on course for victory against Leicestershire, Paul Borrington - a young non-South African, hurrah - going well for Derbys at Northampton, and Middlesex need 280-ish to beat Gloucestershire. The moment for Andrew Strauss to make his mark? 12.20pm: A frustrating morning for Kent so far, writes Andy Wilson at Old Trafford, but that could leave Lancashire with a tricky decision. With helpful overhead conditions and the pitch still offering pace, bounce and movement, Makhaya Ntini and Amjad Khan both looked dangerous. Ntini had Mark Chilton dropped at third slip before adding to his overnight score, and Amjad had a loud appeal for a legside caught behind against Prince turned down. Amjad in particular seemed to lose his rag, bowling too much short stuff which Prince dealt with harshly. Rob Key has turned to Simon Cook and Darren Stevens, but Lancs have moved on to 130 for three - a lead of 237 - with Prince approaching another half century. However, the forecast is for light showers today then heavier rain tomorrow, so they will have to consider an early declaration - especially with the change in the points system in the Championship this season to which Vic has already referred, whereby a draw carries only three points and there are 16 available for a win. 12pm: I'm mildly concerned about all this talk of rain in the west, writes David Hopps. It's due to arrive at Headingley around tea time – although it might be petering out by the time it reaches Leeds - but the county blog could be down to a single game, and me giving score updates to the web's version of "a traditional county crowd." That would be a shame. Dale Benkenstein insisted that he had no fitness problems when he left the ground last night – he had injured his right knee on the first day running out Anthony McGrath - but he must have just been acting tough. He has been limping around at the crease this morning as Durham have slowly added to their overnight 54 for three without further mishaps. They are 84 for three in response to Yorkshire's 610 for six declared. It is his right knee so it is the backfoot shots that are giving him most discomfort. On a pitch of reasonable pace and bounce Tino Best could put him under a lot of pressure, but this is not a pitch of reasonable pace and bounce. He has got away with one cut shot against Best that he played without much control, but with 45 minutes gone Yorkshire have turned to Adil Rashid. He can prepare for a long bowl and after his inactivity with England in South Africa that can only be beneficial. 11.35am: It's raining - not quite double wipers - but it's solid rain, writes Vic Marks in Taunton. No chink in the skies, no hope of play before lunch, not much hope of play today. Proper April weather at last. So I'm off to the pavilion (the Andy Caddick one) to deliver the Wisden Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year award to Jos Buttler. I collected it on his behalf - a trophy and a leather-bound Wisden - at the dinner a couple weeks ago. It could have remained in my study for a couple of years, but this morning I've remembered. Will pop back later but the game will not be advanced. I wonder - if the weather improves tomorrow - whether the tinker with the points system this year will prompt to the two sides to conjure a game. 10.40am: A surprise chance of a prompt start here, with both teams warming up under despite gloomy skies and the odd spot of drizzle, writes Andy Wilson at Old Trafford. Lancashire will be keen to press on, with a commanding lead of 175 and seven second-innings wickets remaining, although as someone said last night, they surely can't rely on Kent batting as badly again. Darren Stevens was the significant exception to that, hitting an aggressive and intelligent century to follow the four wickets he took in Lancashire's first innings. There's an interesting piece about Stevens by the Kent cricket guru Mark Pennell on the testmatchextra.com website - to which I must declare an allegiance as a regular contributor - describing the 33-year-old's winter in South Africa then Zimbabwe, and the influence of Geoff Arnold on his much-improved bowling. The idea that anyone would choose to play cricket in Zimbabwe surprised me, but that's probably just my ignorance never having been to the country. Stevens linked up with the former Yorkshire and Middlesex seamer (and keen Castleford fan) Chris Silverwood who was coaching out there, apparently. Zimbabwe's victory over Australia in a Twenty20 warm-up game in the Caribbean also came as a shock to those of us who have only been vaguely aware of their recent signs of a modest improvement. It will be interesting to see how they do in the tournament proper. One last thing relating to this match, that may already have been discussed in previous county blogs, is the effect that a regulation change forbidding the use of the heavy roller during matches may have on pitches in the Championship this year. The theory I've heard expressed by people who know far more than me is that it makes decisions such as the one Rob Key made here, to bowl first, even more risky as the heavy roller has previously delayed the deterioration of pitches. That could make the big fourth-innings run chases that have become increasingly common in recent years far more tricky. (When Kent are 373 for two on Friday afternoon, don't hold that against me.) 10.20am: After play finished at Headingley last night, I grabbed a quick beer with Gareth Copley, PA's award-winning cricket photographer and one of the funniest people on the cricket circuit, writes David Hopps. Copley is flying to Amsterdam about now for the World Press Awards for this picture of Jonathan Trott being run out by Simon Katich during the final Test in the Ashes series at The Oval last summer. Copley has to make the longest speech of his life tomorrow and, as he will be no doubt surrounded by war photographers who have never even heard of cricket it should be quite a challenge. I have advised him just to do his impression of Derek Pringle. The pub we were in had three pumps of London Pride, adorned with the heads of Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg. Women of a certain age were glowering at the Brown pump and drinking lager and lime instead; I know not why, I may have missed something. The results made interesting reading: Lib Dems 36%, Labour 33%, Conservatives 21%. Before I realised what was going on I had ordered a pint of Abbot. I hope that does not put me down as a supporter of the Pope. It has long been a source of frustration for the best sports photographers – of which The Guardian's Tom Jenkins is another - that their best work often does not reach the paper - or even the web. Cameras are laden with evocative sports shots that never see the light of day. This picture of Trott, incidentally, was requested by his wife to display on the lounge wall as a surprise present when he returned from Bangladesh. Trott had remarked in passing in Bangladesh that he had did not overly care for the photograph because it showed him getting out. (Practical man that he is, he would have preferred the shot that got him to debut Test hundred - even if it was taken from half a mile away and was hopelessly out of focus.) It is to be hoped that Trott's surprise went down well. In fact that is precisely the story that Copley should tell in Amsterdam. I must ring up and tell him. 