 Cricket Australia boss James Sutherland believes his under-siege employees can’t use poor preparation and a cramped schedule as excuses for the side’s current batting crisis. Australia were skittled for 85 after being sent in on day one of second Test against South Africa, while they suffered a shambolic collapse of 83-10 on day two of the first Test. Australia’s lowest Test total at home since 1984 prompted coach Darren Lehmann to admit things were at crisis point. Criticism has been levelled at Sutherland, Lehmann and countless others since Australia lost the first Test of their home summer for the first time since 1988. Many pundits have bemoaned the international and domestic schedules – notably that Australia’s Test squad only had one day-night Sheffield Shield clash to prepare for the Proteas. The opening round of the Shield was preceded by the domestic one-day competition, while the likes of Steve Smith and David Warner were in South Africa for a one-day tour. “I’ve heard a little bit of commentary around preparation and I think it’s interesting,” Sutherland told ABC Radio. “That criticism ... I don’t think the preparation is anything that Australian cricket can complain about because South Africa have had the same schedule. “We have both played each other in one-day matches in October, came through here, had various forms of long-form or other preparatory matches. “They played a game in Adelaide under lights as [the Test squad had] Shield cricket played under lights, so if you draw that comparison the team we are playing against hasn’t had any different preparation. Ideally you might have a different preparation but the fact of the matter is you can’t.” Sutherland reiterated his organisation wanted to play less international cricket in an effort to ease the burden on players and make matches more relevant. “The schedule is difficult and at ICC [International Cricket Council] level it’s something we’re working very hard on,” Sutherland said. “To try and get more structure to refine the way in which international cricket is played and to be honest ultimately play less international cricket. “So that it’s more valuable and there’s not these random series that crop up all the time. That we have context through some sort of a league structure. The hope is there will be less international cricket.” Australia are fully expected to have at least two Shield games prior to the first Test of 2017-18, when they host England. “Every summer is a little bit different ... this particular year for various reasons the first Test is quite early,” Sutherland said. “There was a limited window.” Sutherland also dismissed calls for chairman of selectors Rod Marsh, who has already announced he will leave the key post next year, to step down. A four-Test tour of India is set to be the 69-year-old’s final assignment, although some pundits have suggested the legendary keeper should resign now. CA is yet to contemplate that idea according to Sutherland. “No we haven’t considered anything along those lines,” Sutherland said. “The selection panel clearly have got their job to do and it’s challenging times. “They run independently of management and the board. We respect that, and we also respect the fact it’s difficult when players and the team aren’t performing as well and there are 22 million selectors out there who have different views. “We’re all impatient for success ... it needs to be steady hands on the wheel but that’s not to say there isn’t that urgency about wanting to fight back.” Sutherland also threw his support behind skipper Steve Smith. “We have a very high regard for Steve Smith as a person, as a leader, and obviously as a cricketer and we think ... he’s got a very bright future as a leader for a long time,” Sutherland said. “We’re certainly very conscious of the fact that Steve has come into the role much younger...than any of his four or five predecessors. “Certainly in my time [as CEO], none of them have made an easy or smooth transition into the job. It’s a big step up and it’s a real challenge and even more so if you don’t have the players around you that are performing.” 