 Midday - Richard Rae at the Rose Bowl Good morning from the Rose Bowl, where remarkably we have play. Every Sussex player is swathed in man-made fibres, including blue beanies. Mushtaq is bowling in his, but Robin Martin-Jenkins is made of sterner stuff, although he does plunge his hands into his pockets every time he walks back to his mark. Even so, he's as accurate and nagging as ever, and in his third over he gets Michael Lumb leg before for 82. Lumb, as Yorkshire supporters will confirm, is a batsman who has spent most of his career flattering to deceive, and his dismissal is a disappointing one, the left-hander falling over towards off-stump and playing across the line at a delivery which started on leg stump and would have probably hit middle. Greg Lamb is handling Mushtaq well though, and appropriately on the day the IPL circus gets underway, he's been joined by Dimi Mascarenhas. Martin-Jenkins gets one to seam back and bounce and hits him just above the box; a couple of inches lower, and Dimi's IPL participation might have been in doubt. I can't help feeling the whole IPL 'threat' is being over-cooked. Ultimately no one cares who wins when two entirely manufactured teams with no connection to or feeling for the place they're playing in meet for a 20-over thrash, and in the end they won't want to watch. Can anybody remember a single result from the Packer matches? Hants 316-7, Lamb 24, Mascarenhas 3, by the way. * * * 12.30pm - David Hopps at Edgbaston It has been a typical county cricket morning here with the failures of new technology causing havoc in the press box. One minute it is a world of narrow-nibbed fountain pen with serious-minded navy blue ink and thermos flasks; the next minute it is malfunctioning computers, live blogging and, ehm, still thermos flasks. The pace of change is enough to disturb a man's sleep. But finally here we are from Edgbaston, with news of a century for Vikram Solanki and Worcestershire pressing strongly for victory in the Bears vs Pears derby. Solanki's last championship hundred had a particular piquancy for Worcestershire. It was against Surrey at New Road last June, the last championship match before the advent of the summer floods which caused the River Severn to burst its banks, leaving English cricket's most beautiful county ground awash and plunging Worcestershire into financial crisis. Worcestershire return to New Road next Wednesday and the fact that the weather has been so cold in early spring that parts of the outfield have barely grown will be overlooked. They are just glad to be back. And Solanki is now returning with another championship hundred to his name. He was 75 not out at the start of the third day and reached his hundred (162 balls) after an hour by leg-glancing Daggett. It was Solanki at his most composed - not a word that is often associated with him. With Worcestershire's lead heading towards 300 with six wickets left, and Warwickshire's attack looking pedestrian, Solanki had cause for optimism that Worcestershire would force an early victory in the West Midlands derby between two relegated sides. That last championship match at New Road, incidentally, marked Rikki Clarke's resignation from the vice-captaincy at Surrey. By then Surrey's frustration over his unfulfilled talent was evident and, after one lazy chip to cover too many, he left to join Derbyshire as captain, proclaiming how a move seemingly in the wrong direction would revive his England career. There are many paths to fulfillment but this one seemed one of those less trodden. The new partnership of Clarke as captain and John Morris as coach has not been helped by the loss of their two big close-season signings, Wavell Hinds and Mahela Jayawardene. Gloucestershire at Bristol did not look the toughest start for a county eager to show its mettle - Gloucestershire must be rivals to Derbyshire to finish bottom of division two - but Derbyshire were hurried out for 124 on the first day and conceded a first-innings lead of 190. They began the third day at 235 for four, 45 ahead, with Clarke unbeaten on 22. It was an opportunity for the new captain to make his mark by leading a stirring fightback, but he only added five this morning before falling to the Zimbabwean Anthony Ireland. On the evidence of the scorecard as he walked off, it looked as if the only thing Derbyshire will turn around this year is their square. * * * 1.15pm - Paul Weaver at The Oval Hello from The Oval where we have had an interesting morning despite the damp and cold conditions. The Mark Ramprakash debate really seemed to get everyone going yesterday. So I will say here and now that I also think Graeme Hick deserves an England recall. No, only kidding. I think there were one or two England coaches who could have handled Hicky better but let's not go there right now. You would have to be a really keen Ramprakash fan to recognise the fellow today. He's been entombed in about half a dozen sweaters and has had his hands thrust deep into his pockets like someone desperately searching for a coin for the last bus home. Surrey, though, even without their overseas fast bowler Matt Nicholson, who has flu, have bowled really well in the opening session. Jimmy Ormond had nightwatchman Gary Keedy dropped by Mark Butcher at slip when he had added 11 runs to his overnight seven. To add to Ormond's frustration the ball dribbled over the third-man rope for four. Ormond, though, who has lost a couple of stone this season (and he had them to lose), bowled an absolute snorter to Lancashire's highly-rated opener Paul Horton which caught the shoulder of the bat and was taken behind. That made it 105 for two and ten runs later Keedy lost his off-stump to one that was well pitched up by the West Indian Chris Jordan, who looks strong and fast and older than his 19 years. Lancashire had lost three wickets in the space of 12 runs when Mal Loye was fourth out at 117. Brad Hodge pushed the ball into the covers and set off for a single and Chris Schofield, fielding in place of Usman Afzaal, ran round from point and threw down the wicket. Mark Butcher then suffered a bizarre accident in the slips. Wicketkeeper Jonathan Batty ripped off a glove and as he threw it down he contrived to catch his captain in the left eye. A few Surrey players were seen chortling, so it can't be too serious, but Butcher took himself out of the slips, calling Ali Brown there in his place, and looked a little miffed as he moved into the covers. At lunch Lancashire are 152 for four. * * * 4.20pm - Paul Weaver at The Oval They're off for bad light here with Lancashire 241 for six, and taking an early tea. Surrey got a second bowling point with the wicket of Andrew Flintoff, who hit 23 in as many balls with four fours. It was the doosra, the off-spinner's leg-break, from Saqlain Mushtaq, that did for him. He had looked good and hit Chris Jordan for three fours in as many balls. But Freddie needs time at the crease more than anything. At his best he looks a proper batsman. But when he's short of batting there is a stiffness about him and he appears to be wearing gloves made out of cast iron. Before he fell the captain, Stuart Law, went to a fine diving catch by Ramparkash at mid-off. He played too early at one that appeared to stop from Pedro Collins. I don't think it was the slower ball. Bad weather might frustrate Surrey in this match but they have played well and at least they have a few points in the bag. I had a couple of pints with their coach, Alan Butcher, in a Vauxhall boozer last night. He's excited by some of the new talent he's brought in this season. The sight of the Barbados pair of Collins and Jordan running in took us back to the days of Surrey's deadliest bowler from that wonderful, teardrop-shaped island. In the eighties there were a lot of fast bowlers about and Clarke was perhaps the nastiest of the lot of them. But according to the Surrey boys at the time he was just as smart as Andy Roberts, one of the all-time great speedmen. Clarke was immensely strong and could generate terrifying speed from just a few paces. Butch said: "If you put your arm down by your side and held it rigid he could put his hand under yours and lift you up quite easily." Some, though, thought Silvers chucked it. David Gower once scored a century against him and told me: "I was seeing the ball like a football. Then he bowled me one and I didn't see it at all, just felt the breeze as it flew past my chin. I'm not saying he chucked it, but ..." Clarke, like Malcolm Marshall, used to drink brandy, not rum, and often a player from the opposing team was deputed to get him pissed the night before he was due to bowl. On one occasion, at Weston-super-mare, Ian Botham did such a good job for Somerset that Clarke spent the entire day curled up asleep in the changing room. 