 Mr Justice Siraj Desai ordered that television cameras and the print media be allowed into the Cape Town court - despite claims by the state counsel, Willem Tarentaal, that they would handle the hearing "insensitively". Mr Tarentaal told the court that the families of the three men killed in the crash had been subjected to media exposure. "To subject the families of the deceased to still further coverage in this regard is not in the interests of justice," he said. Police said neither the families of the other dead men nor Cronje's widow, Bertha, were expected to attend the inquest. They said they had been unable to trace the family of the dead co-pilot, Ian Noakes, 49, who was believed to have relatives in the UK. Cronje died four years ago when the light plane in which he was travelling slammed into the Outeniqua mountains near the town of George, in the Eastern Cape. The pilot, Willie Meyer, 69, also died in the crash. He was an experienced pilot, with more than 20,000 hours flying time to his name. Cronje made his Test debut against the West Indies in 1992 and went on to play 68 Tests for South Africa including a record 53 as captain. He also played first-class cricket for Free State and Leicestershire. Initially he was revered as one of the most successful captains in the history of the South African cricket team, but he died in disgrace after a match-fixing scandal. He was banned from the game for life after it was found that he had accepted about $130,000 (£68,000) to throw matches. The son of a preacher, Cronje claimed to have been "born again" after killing a child in a road accident in 1991. He said of the match-fixing scandal: "In a moment of stupidity and weakness I allowed Satan and the world to dictate terms to me. The moment I took my eyes off Jesus my whole world turned dark." Rumours that he had been murdered have been circulating in South Africa, but no evidence has been produced. Evidence at yesterday's hearing suggested the crash was as a result of a "chain of errors" familiar to air crash investigators. In this case they included pilot error, faulty equipment on the aircraft - a Hawker Siddeley 748 - and at the airport, as well as poor visibility. A pilot is heard swearing on the voice cockpit recorder, followed by a ground-proximity alarm saying: "Pull up, pull up," and then silence. "They didn't see the mountain at all," said an investigator for the Central Aviation Authority, Andre de Kock. Asked by Mr Justice Desai why the pilot did not react faster, Mr De Kock said it was a "mental thing. It's like you don't believe it and don't react". He said the crash could have been avoided if the pilot had used a standard "missed approach procedure" after over-flying the runway. This required him to go to a designated eight-mile beacon before trying again to land. The runway's ground landing system at George airport was not working correctly and the "directional gyroscope" on the plane was defective, he said. Two wires on the compass were also disconnected, a fault that could have resulted in the pilots receiving confusing direction readings. "What was unknown to them was that they were drifting by a large amount. They had lost situational awareness," he said. The aircraft was travelling at 150 miles per hour when it hit the mountain. Its fuselage was split into three by the impact. The hearing continues. 