 Tensions have emerged in the England dressing room over how best to divide the potential winnings from November's Twenty20 game in Antigua against the Texan billionaire Sir Allen Stanford's All-Star XI. Although each player taking part in the match - the first of five annual money-spinners between now and 2012 - is set to earn an appearance fee in the region of $100,000, the England team are still debating who should get what should they win the match, as well as how much should be set aside for the remaining five squad members and the backroom staff. The England and Wales Cricket Board is due to announce the precise details of the agreement with Stanford either this week or early next but each player on the winning side is expected to pocket $1m, with a quarter of the $20m kitty going to West Indian cricket. That would leave almost $2m to be shared between the non-playing members of the touring party, but sources close to the dressing-room have confirmed that there is as yet no agreement over how to do this, with the concerns of those on the periphery of Twenty20 selection thought to be a particular sticking-point. A report yesterday that England were considering pulling out of the match altogether because of the divisive nature of the money on offer was dismissed out of hand by the ECB. But when the coach, Peter Moores, was asked last week whether he was wary of the arrangement he left plenty of scope for reading between the lines. "Like most things in life, it's got to be fair," he said. "If it's fair, people will be fine with it. If it's deemed to be unfair, it'll cause its own dramas." Six of the ECB's 12 centrally contracted players (seven if the injured Andrew Flintoff is counted) are not currently involved with England's Twenty20 team. That group includes the Test captain. Michael Vaughan, who handed the leadership of the one-day side last summer to Paul Collingwood but who has yet officially to retire from limited-overs internationals . He later sounded bemused at suggestions that he might be involved in dressing-room discussions about the match fee but the attractions of an appearance in Antigua on November 1 do not need spelling out. When Vaughan was asked before this Test if he was still available for Twenty20 cricket his reply was a smiling but resolute "absolutely", even though he has played only two matches in the five years since the format began and the more recent of them was January 2007. Given the irritation that has built up among England's players over their absence from this year's inaugural Indian Premier League, it was inevitable that sums of cash not normally associated with cricket had the potential to cause further unrest. Kevin Pietersen has reportedly been offered more than £2m for a three-year deal, starting in 2009, by an unknown IPL franchise. That would be more than the competition's costliest player, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, fetched at auction in February, but as yet none of Pietersen's centrally contracted colleagues has an offer on the table; a few days in the Caribbean sun may be their only hope of keeping financial pace with the world's best. Negotiations in the coming weeks are bound to throw up tricky questions, such as whether the six players with a central contract on the outside of the Twenty20 squad - Vaughan, Alastair Cook, Steve Harmison, Matthew Hoggard, Monty Panesar and Andrew Strauss - should benefit from what could be English cricket's biggest payday. There must also be concerns that a cricketer might be tempted to play through an injury in Antigua. 