The England cricketer, 33, laments the rise of the teatime protein shake and recalls beating Ian Botham’s wicket-taking record Mark Bailey 
 I grew up as a cricket pest. My dad had a video of “Botham’s Ashes” of 1981 and I watched it until it broke – or my mum got rid of it because she was sick of me watching it. I used to bowl against the garage door and annoy people with the noise, just pretending I was bowling for England. Becoming a father changed my outlook. When I was younger I was quite intense and I thought I needed to be successful to create a good life. Now I know that a bad day at work is not the be all and end all. I’m still Dad. I can be quite difficult to get to know. I’m weighing people up, so I’m very quiet when I first meet someone, but those who take the time to get to know me tend to become good friends. I collect things that trigger memories: team photos, stumps, balls, shirts… The photos mean a lot to me. They are of the people I have made history with, the friends who have influenced my life for more than a decade. My childhood hero was Boris Becker. I remember him winning Wimbledon in 1985, when he was 17. He was so athletic, diving around the court all the time. I used to try to imitate him by diving around the front room with a racket and a ball and trying to hit drop volleys over the sofa. When I’m cooking for guests at home I go for a beef wellington. The secret is getting the pastry just right so the bottom isn’t soggy. I spend more time in hotels than I do at my house. I have been on long tours with England since I was 20 years old, but as my kids get older it feels harder and harder. I will have a lot of catching up to do when I stop. The West Indies is the most glamorous place to play cricket. You can always relax, surrounded by beaches and the sea. India is intense. People there are so fanatical about cricket, it’s hard to step out of your hotel. Cricket was better when there were scones. The lunch room at Lord’s is a special place to eat, but these days the tea break is more about protein shakes and fruit and nuts, than scones and cucumber sandwiches. I’m a big fan of 1990s indie music and culture. The album I listen to the most is the Verve’s Urban Hymns. I put the record on and just sit down with a cup of tea – it’s my way of relaxing. My whole family is shy: Mum, Dad, my sister and me. But I can hold a conversation now, whereas I never used to be able to. I always used to avoid people. Now I only do that occasionally. It’s surreal when your idol congratulates you. When I overtook Sir Ian Botham as England’s leading wicket-taker in Antigua in April 2015 he was waiting for me as I left the field and told me he had enjoyed watching me improve. I will remember that when I sit down at the end of my career and talk to my grandchildren about what I used to do with my life. Investec is the title sponsor of Test match cricket in England. For more on Investec private banking, visit investec.co.uk/banking 