 Morning all. Jimmy Anderson is a quiet man, and he doesn't smile much. Earlier this year I was in the Long Room at Lord's, sitting mute with a bunch of vociferous fellow hacks collecting quotes from the England team. KP came and went in a blaze of fawning admiration, everyone chuckling at his jokes and hanging on his handshake. Paul Collingwood came in next, his usual earthy, friendly self. And then the England press guy came in. "Guys" he said, "do you want to have a word with Jimmy?" There was a collective shrug of disinterest, an unspoken answer of 'no, not really' hung in the room. We had already cropped enough words for our copy. "Please", the press-wallah said, "he's been waiting outside for five minutes, just toss him a couple of questions". He was almost pleading, so we all agreed and in came Jimmy. His head was bowed, his shoulders hunched. I've rarely seen a sportsman so beset by insecurity: he looked a broken man. His quotes were incoherent ramblings about getting his action right. And if he wasn't quite sending back reports about watching a snail crawl along a razor's edge, he was clearly perplexed by his own inconsistency. But then, his career-path would break most men. To have so much success so young - remember he'd only played in 13 first class matches when he made his England debut - when he clearly had so little understanding of his talent must have been scarring. It's been six long years since, and he's had his game taken apart, rebuilt, taken apart and rebuilt over and over. Which is a tough gig when you're a natural, as Anderson was. He was confused, perplexed, baffled by a succession of coaches and a lack of playing time, seemingly perpetually on the England fringe. Which is why it was so delightful to see him lead the team off the field last night, a broad smile on his face, beaming with his success. Anderson has earned it, whatever happens in the next match, whether he's still in the team come the end of the summer or not. Can he take all ten? The odds are against it. Not least because it is raining at Trent Bridge, the covers are on and play is not going to start on time. In the frustrating meantime here is what happened the last time a Test bowler took all ten in an innings: The drizzle isn't too bad, I'm told, and hopefully we should start before lunch. I'm being kind of selfish when I say that because at 1pm I'm popping up to Regent's Park to play a game myself. And much as I love the experience of watching some banker who happens to have a playing membership of the MCC slog my slow-slow-straight bowling to all parts of the Park, I wouldn't swap it for the sight of Anderson doing something remarkable, as he may. First time writer, long time reader is what Bob Campion says he is. Is that enough to get him on the OBO? On a Saturday morning, yes, yes it is. "With question markets over so many of this England 11 - including yesterday's hit or miss hero Jimmy A - wouldn't it be great if a 4-day '1st XI vs 2nd XI' style game was set up against the following 'B' team -Prior, Key*, Shah, Bopara, Wright, Mascarenhas, Read (w), Rashid, Hoggard, Harmison, Tremlett? They'd certainly give the usual bunch a run for their money. With Flintoff – and even Simon Jones – coming back, it's about time the selectors shook things up if they are to find our best 11 in time for the Aussies." Yes, yes it would, though I'm not sure your team is the strongest available. Sadly there's little time for such frivolities in modern schedules. At 11.50am there's still no word on when play might start I'm afraid. There'll be an inspection in 15 minutes, at 12.15. It is still drizzling, which is a little depressing. However, in an entirely praise-worthy move the umpires have decided to call off the covers and take an early lunch. Play then is due to start at 1.20pm, all being well. LUNCHNo play was possible in the morning session of the third day and an early lunch was taken. However, the covers are now off at Trent Bridge and we're optimistic that play will resume some time soon-ish. Andy Bull has slouched out to his game at Regent's Park so I'm in for the rest of the day, drizzle or otherwise. Please continue to send any witticisms to the address at the top and we'll get through it together. The umpires were out moments ago and instructed the covers be removed. Play is now due to resume at 1.40pm, which means tea will be at 4.10pm and there might well be an additional hour of play at the end. Light permitting. There's something wholly appropriate about the first name appearing in my inbox on my Guardian OBO debut. Yes, it belongs to Gary Naylor, who has probably written more of these commentaries over the years than most of the paid contributors. Anyway, it's nothing more than a loosener: "While I'm half expecting Jimmy to fail to land it on the cut part today, yesterday's display was pretty sensational. I wonder what Hoggy thinks? I suspect that for all Sidebottom's marvellous return to the colours and Broad's all-rounder potential, NZ would have been all out last night had a Hoggy - Jimmy attack been unleashed. And it won't be so easy second time round without Hoggy." Are you out there Hoggy? What do you think? Sky have gone on an advert break with the following confident teaser across the bottom of the screen: "NEXT - Third Test live..." Play is imminent it seems, with England after the final four Kiwi wickets, and Jimmy Anderson sniffing around a sensational haul. Can he do it? I guess we'll find out soon. OK, here we have it: New Zealand resume on 96-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 3) and Jimmy Anderson is on 6-42. Our new scheduled closing time is 7pm, although it's gloomy enough to seem unlikely. Tea is at 4.10pm and I'm looking no further than that at the moment. 33rd over: New Zealand 96-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 3)And we're off. Finally. Ryan Sidebottom has four balls of his over from last night to get through and starts off to Daniel Vettori. It swings, Vettori leaves it alone, and heeeeere's Jimmy. 34th over: New Zealand 96-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 3)Huge expectation on Anderson's shoulders here. Will the pundits now consider it a failure if he doesn't rattle through these final four? His first six balls today are all wide outside off stump, but all swing a bit. Hopkins leaves well alone. Maiden. 35th over: New Zealand 100-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 7)Of course, Ryan Sidebottom could ruin all this if he manages to nick a wicket here. Thankfully he's looking largely toothless and Vettori scores the first runs of the day, middling one through the on side for four. Hundred up for New Zealand; 65 more needed to avoid the follow on. 36th over: New Zealand 104-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 7)Beefy announces that he saw two horses on the way to Trent Bridge this morning, and he says "horses" exactly like Chris Morris says it when describing the infestation of horses on the London Underground all those years ago. (Thanks to Gary Naylor for finding the Day Today clip.) Anderson is swinging it all over the place, meanwhile, but is nowhere near the right spot: one swings all the way wide of leg stump and goes for four. 37th over: New Zealand 104-6 (Hopkins 11, Vettori 7)Bumble is referring to what Michael Vaughan will be wanting from his bowlers "this morning", presumably having been left switched off until play started and hasn't had his setting adjusted after the washed out first session. Sidebottom sends down another innocuous maiden. 38th over: New Zealand 105-6 (Hopkins 12, Vettori 7)Anderson tempts Hopkins into attempting a drive, but the ball trickles to Kevin Pieterson at point. Hopkins then jabs one forward and they dart a quick single, which gives Anderson his first shot at the left-handed Vettori. After a couple of outswingers, he nips the last one back into the New Zealand captain who is saved by an inside edge. WICKET! Vettori c Strauss b Sidebottom 7 (38th over: New Zealand 110-7 (Hopkins 14, Mills 1)Left-arm Sidebottom gets his first stab at right-hand Hopkins and an off-side stab earns two, before a leg bye gets Vettori back on strike. But.. OUT! Vettori slashes at a wide one and top edges to Andrew Strauss at first slip. It's as routine a slip chance as they come and Strauss snaffles it. Sidebottom ruins Anderson's party, but New Zealand are seven down. 39th over: New Zealand 110-7 (Hopkins 12, Mills 1)Kyle Mills is the new batsman; Jimmy Anderson is the old bowler. Maiden. 40th over: New Zealand 114-7 (Hopkins 12, Mills 1)Sidebottom is finding the right length here and beats Mills outside off. But strays to leg on the final ball and it goes for four more leg byes. Thanks to all for sending in the clip to the Chris Morris Day Today horse infestation. It's down there - 36th over. 41st over: New Zealand 114-7 (Hopkins 12, Mills 1)Better stuff from Anderson, who prompts Michael Vaughan to stick out his bottom lip in his cartoon expression of regret as a full one zips past Hopkins's outside edge. Another maiden. Still pretty gloomy. 42nd over: New Zealand 119-7 (Hopkins 12, Mills 1)The good and the stinking from Sidebottom, who undoes a couple of early decent deliveries with a wild swinging wide zinger that beats first slip and goes for five wides. Hawkeye tells us it was 112cm wide of the stumps. New Zealand need 46 to avoid the follow on, and they'll get them all in extras. 43rd over: New Zealand 123-7 (Hopkins 12, Mills 1)Another four byes as Anderson sends one miles down the leg side, beating Ambrose's goalkeeper's dive. The ball is now doing far too much for them to control it and Stuart Broad gets the signal from Vaughan to limber up. WICKET! Mills c Pieterson b Broad 1 Here's Stuart Broad, whose five overs yesterday went for 10 runs. Just bowling somewhere on the rough stuff today will be and improvement on the spray spluttered out by Sidebottom and Anderson today. And... got him! Broad's third ball is slashed at by Kyle Mills and it flies to KP at second gulley. He's made to jump, but takes it with two hands directly above his head. WICKET! O'Brien b Broad 0 (44th over: New Zealand 123-9 (Hopkins 12, O'Brien 0)What an over from Broad and just what England needed. O'Brien is in and he's out, after England's new lethal talent pitches the second ball on middle, moves it away to off stump and rips it out. WICKET! Hopkins lbw b Anderson 12 New Zealand 123 all outJimmy doesn't get 10, but seven will do. Hopkins had played well enough today, but with the walking wicket in the form of Martin at the other end, he decides to go for some shots. Bad decision: the misses a full one from Anderson that looks like it's going down leg but straightens onto his pads. Darryl Hair raises the finger and an abject display from the Kiwis comes to an end, with Anderson grinning his way into the pavilion. England enforce the follow on. Michael Vaughan doesn't give the chance for anyone to debate whether or not England should enforce the follow on by announcing immediately that they'll have a second bowl. New Zealand's second innings will start in five minutes or so. 1st over: New Zealand 4-0 (How 4 Redmond 0)And off we go again. Ryan Sidebottom to Jamie How, with the ball swinging all over the place and England clearly expecting to scythe through this increasingly fragile batting side. 2nd over: New Zealand 4-0 (How 4 Redmond 0)The talk at Trent Bridge is about some afters between Sidebottom and How at the end of that last over -- a good chinwag over the garden fence according to Sky's professional northerner, John Lloyd. No one knows why: How just defended against Sidebottom which apparently rankled with the England man. Redmond survives an Anderson maiden. 3rd over: New Zealand 5-0 (How 5 Redmond 0)Sidebottom is taking on all comers with some unknown banter, then sweeping hair behind his ears and grinning. His bark is worse than his bite as another tame over costs one. Meanwhile Paul Beaumont is indulging in a spot of Schadenfreude at the expense of his mate John Cox (or, guess what, "Coxy"). In no more than about 4,000 words and a few unnecessary attempts at literary description, Paul describes how his mate cycled into a Sardinian tree stump and is now in an Italian hospital with "shattered elbows, casts up to his shoulders and apparently will be unable to feed himself or 2 months." Ha and indeed ha. 4th over: New Zealand 12-0 (How 10 Redmond 1)Anderson draws a couple of false shots from How, the first squirms past Pietersen in the gulley and goes for four down to third man; the second lobs up but falls short of the slips. Ian Copestake is getting complacent: "Is this what it used to feel like to be an Aussie supporter? I've never felt actual disappointment that the opposition are not giving us a game, but that what's happening now." It is, Ian. But it's comments like these that tend to reappear during Ashes OBOs, unearthed by Aussies with nothing better to do that trawl through archived reports for English hubris. 5th over: New Zealand 14-0 (How 10 Redmond 2)As Sidebottom fails to trouble How again, David Lloyd spots a Mohawk in the crowd and gets all pensioner on us: "Who's sitting behind that?" Etc, etc. 6th over: New Zealand 14-0 (How 10 Redmond 2)New Zealand trail by 227 runs, and have scored just 237 runs for their last 20 wickets. As the television statisticians tell us, that's an average of 11.85, which is roughly what Murali averages in Test cricket. Coincidence? Yes, yes it is. Maiden from Anderson to Redmond, with the only excitement on the final ball when there's a shout for a caught behind, but Steve Bucknor saw it catch the top of the pad and shook his head. 7th over: New Zealand 21-0 (How 19 Redmond 2)Stuart Broad, who made the telling contribution with two sharp wickets at the end of the first innings, is brought back and nearly snaffles Jamie How first ball. It's full and wide outside off and How slashes at it without any foot movement. It flies to a diving Paul Collingwood at third slip, whose athletic leap high to his right can't quite pluck it out of the sky. How ends up with seven from the over. 8th over: New Zealand 21-0 (How 19 Redmond 2)There are at least three Broads in the house, with Stuart watched by father Chris and his sister in the crowd. The female Broad looks frighteningly like her father, but has mercifully opted out of the crinkle-cut hair. Maiden from Anderson. Yet another. WICKET! Redmond c Ambrose b Broad 2 There's the inevitable Redmond failure as he takes a big swing at a full, straight ball from Broad and edges behind to Ambrose. Comfortable. The Broad contingent clench fists, the sozzled crowd almost roars, but it's all strangely muted as England take a small step towards the finishing line. 9th over: New Zealand 21-1 (How 19 McCullum 0)Brendon McCullum sees off the rest of Broad's arrow straight over. Michael Vaughan isn't happy with the ball, however, and asks for a change. Darryl Hair peers at it like it's something his chiuauha has left at the bottom of his handbag and gives it back to the England captain. 10th over: New Zealand 21-1 (How 19 McCullum 0)Ryan Sidebottom replaces Jimmy Anderson, but continues the relative toothlessness and tosses down another maiden. There's talk of giving Monty "Scarlett to my left; Beyonce to my right" Panesar a bowl. Why not. 11th over: New Zealand 27-1 (How 19 McCullum 6)The first proper shot of the innings gets McCullum his first boundary, driving Broad through the covers. Otherwise unexciting as Broad stays on line and New Zealand celebrate another six balls without capitulation. 12th over: New Zealand 27-1 (How 19 McCullum 6)As the trickle of e-mails to my inbox stops entirely, Ryan Sidebottom continues his trundling at Trent Bridge and it's another maiden. New Zealand trail by 214. 13th over: New Zealand 33-1 (How 19 McCullum 12)Vaughan again tries to get the ball changed and the umpires, as interpreted by Michael Holding, seem to think that a part of it has "got a bit flat." It's not the only thing: this match, this OBO, life. They get a new one - ball, that is -- and Stuart Broad swings it right onto Brendon McCullum's bat, who cuffs it through the covers for four. At least the sun seems to be coming out at Nottingham, meaning a 7.30 finish is possibly possible, if not probably probable. Broad gets agitated on the last ball of the over, which bounces a bunch and maybe clips McCullum's sleeve as it goes through to Ambrose. Not out. WICKET! How c Cook b Sidebottom 19 (14th over: New Zealand 37-2 (McCullum 12 Taylor 4))Ryan Sidebottom seems keen to donate his match fee to the ICC coffers as he gives Jamie How a full on in-your-face, get-out-of-here bellow after the Kiwi opener edges a scrambled-seamed full one to Alastair Cook. It's a mystery what has got Sidebottom's goat, but he's got his man and his first wicket of this innings. Cook's catch is waist height and well taken. New Zealand are 33-2 and Ross Taylor comes in. 15th over: New Zealand 37-2 (McCullum 12 Taylor 4)Richard Stubbs has got the right idea about this e-mailing a popular website and getting your name in print (if that's what interests you). "I have absolutely nothing of any interest to say about the current game," is his contribution. Zing. To be honest Richard, you're not alone. That's another Broad maiden. 16th over: New Zealand 38-2 (McCullum 12 Taylor 5)Not only is Ian Copeland sending e-mails to the Guardian on a Saturday afternoon, but he's sending e-mails to the Guardian on a Saturday afternoon from Germany. "For selfish reasons I am hopingthis game fills tomorrow as it will distract from the build up to theGermany match," he says. "Here in Frankfurt I have witnessed happy Germans in years past, and as they do not really do unbridled joy it is somewhatunnerving. In fact it is not unlike the feeling of walking in on one'sparents while they are, well, rekindling romances past." Scorpions on the record player, moustache tickling moustache, leather. Unfortunately, I don't expect New Zealand to help you out on that one, Ian. And if you can't beat them... 17th over: New Zealand 42-2 (McCullum 13 Taylor 8)Suddenly everyone's got the e-mail bug, and continental European woe is prevalent: "I'm sitting in Basel in a freezing, deathly quiet, buyer-free art fair, occasionally enthusing to rare, interested non-clients about the (rather wonderful) photographer I'm here to show," moans Jim Harris in what is clearly actually a boast. "OBO is one of the few relieving pleasures, so don't be too down because the cricket isn't fizzing at present. New Zealand are following on. Jimmy Anderson is renascent. England batted down to No 9, admittedly without batting at all at Nos 5 & 6." True, true. Stuart Broad just had six balls and nearly ran out Ross Taylor. But he took off the bails with his hand and did not actually have the ball, which is not going to fool the third umpire. 18th over: New Zealand 45-2 (McCullum 13 Taylor 8)Anderson has the last over before tea, and it's the Jimmy of today rather than the Jimmy of yesterday, which means an erratic line, an inconsistent length, and not much to write home about. They take the 20 minute break, with England cruising without really needing to get out of second gear, and New Zealand a shambles. Tea-time e-mails: "Stuck in the office on my own on a Saturday and I'm starting to lose it," says Alexander Robertson, which wouldn't be that interesting if his e-mail footer didn't reveal his position as a Vice President in a well-known financial institution's Risk Management department. Go on, Alexander. Press the button. "Do you have any charities to plug? That always helps me salve the guilt of being a corporate wage slave lackey." No.  James in Bath gets a bit plaintive in his PS: "Go on, publish this," he says. "I have written so many times about cricket and never got on." OK, but only on the condition that you tell me what all the initials in your e-mail address stand for, Mr J.A.O.C. Brown.  "May I (ab)use the fine OBO service to appeal to your readers for help tracking down a song I heard a couple of years ago and have never been able to find?" Yes, you can, J.A.O.C. Tell us more. "It had a line about 'Thatcher the milk snatcher' and sounded a lot like Roots Manuva but I can't find it searching the lyrics of any of his songs." Put the man out of his misery someone. And maybe guess what all those initials could stand for while you're at it. Token cricket e-mail: "Bell must be secretly cursing the New Zealand batting collapse," writes Paul Beaumont. "With no second innings opportunity to save himself with a big score he simply has to be a goner now. " If anyone cares about that, they can also write in. But probably won't be published. McCullum and Taylor march out, windmilling their bats as they do. And we're off again. 19th over: New Zealand 46-2 (McCullum 14 Taylor 8)Brendon McCullum almost gifts his wicket away on the first ball after tea by attempting to drive a swinging Broad delivery but scuffs it that  short of KP in the covers. Broad has been the pick this afternoon. 20th over: New Zealand 51-2 (McCullum 20 Taylor 10)Tom Crane hasn't noticed that he's writing an e-mail to hswains@gmail.com and blusters: "Hi Andy, thought I'd tap up the country's leading sports commentator for some Euro 2008 knowledge. Any thoughts on some good bets for the tournament?" Well, since Andy is currently ambling around Regent's Park, occasionally sending down a few medium pacers to dismissive batsmen, you're probably going to be disappointed. But if you're interested in the opinion of the nineteenth-best OBO reporter in the country who's cobbled together some Euro 2008 knowledge by overhearing people on the bus and listening to cabbies, I'd say: "Spain have all the ability and might just surprise this time." Anderson just bowled an over. That's what OBO is all about. WICKET! Taylor lbw b Broad 14 (21st over: New Zealand 58-3 (McCullum 20 Flynn 0)Stuart Broad is too full and is sliced away for four by Taylor. But next ball, he's a lot straighter, pitches one on middle that stays low and carries on. Taylor tries to flick it away, misses and is out. New Zealand trail by 183 runs and might as well give up now. 22nd over: New Zealand 59-3 (McCullum 21 Flynn 0)Jimmy Anderson steps up and forces McCullum to endure a characteristically drawn-out moment as Steve Bucknor decides whether to raise his finger when one raps the front pad. McCullum is well forward and Bucknor keeps his finger warm. 23rd over: New Zealand 63-3 (McCullum 22 Flynn 3)J.A.O.C. Brown has been back in touch, claiming that he was relying on his "ridiculous number of initials" to "maintain an air of mystery and defeat identity fraud". He then invites me to run a sweepstake on what they stand for. I'd love to James, but no one seems to be interested this afternoon, not in the cricket, not in their e-mail account, not in your almost-Roots Manuva song query and, I confidently claim on behalf of 11 readers, not in your initials. So here they are, with reasoning. James Abdulaziz (converted to Islam) Oliver (after Cromwell, dad's fault) Cottman (mum's maiden name) Brown. Beat that, anyone. Meanwhile Daniel Flynn is off the mark from Broad's latest effort. 24th over: New Zealand 71-3 (McCullum 22 Flynn 10)Flynn looks significantly more confident than any New Zealand batsman so far today and drives through the off side for three, then clips off his legs for four. Emily Crick, meanwhile, has a dilemma: "I've got a ticket for Trent Bridge tomorrow but don't live near Nottingham. In order to get up there I have to leave tonight before the end of play. So here's the dilemma - is it worth a three hour train journey this evening or do I bank on more superb bowling from England and a speedy Kiwi collapse tonight?"Tough one, but I think this one will go into tomorrow. Flynn and McCullum look relatively handy, they'll take the light as soon as it's offered today, and we'll come back tomorrow to wrap it all up. You can get up to Nottingham tonight, join the hen and stag nights rampaging through the city centre, then drag your hungover self to the cricket tomorrow and bask in a comfortable England victory. Failing that, my sister lives in Nottingham and she does a wonderful Sunday roast. 25th over: New Zealand 72-3 (McCullum 22 Flynn 10)Mediocre stuff from Broad, who has still been the best bowler for England today so is forgiven. 26th over: New Zealand 72-3 (McCullum 22 Flynn 10)Sidebottom's back and tries the scrambled seam trick against Flynn, rapping him on the front pad. There's an inside edge and that's not out as hawkeye Bucknor noticed it. Meanwhile it turns out more people are interested in J.A.O.C. Brown's initials than I previously thought, especially strange since the truth has now been revealed. A person claiming to be called Liv Stobseth-Brown has opted for "Jess Anya Oscar Chavvy" but hasn't really put the effort in, while Christopher Harris goes for "James Algernon Oliver Cranshaw", obviously believing a lot of names means a lot of silver spoons. 27th over: New Zealand 76-3 (McCullum 24 Flynn 11)Monty Panesar gets his first bowl of the innings, and frivolous dicsussion of correspondent's initials will have to cease as the spinner flies through his first over and I miss it all. 28th over: New Zealand 76-3 (McCullum 24 Flynn 11)A maiden for Sidebottom, the only excitement coming when McCullum nibbles at one and it falls just short of the gulley. "With regards to the 'Maggie Thatcher, milk snatcher' song," enters Dan Pearce. "I reckon you can limit the choice to something by Morrisey or the Smiths. That miserable so and so always waffling about the government or something, and he's just the sort of bloke that would write about something so trivial." In addition to belittling a genius, I think this is just plain wrong, I'm afraid. Thousands of Smiths fans would clearly have already e-mailed having been given the faintest of opportunities to write anything about Morrissey. So we can definitely rule that out -- as if the Roots Manuva similarities weren't enough. 29th over: New Zealand 77-3 (McCullum 24 Flynn 13)Another whippet-like over from Monty. I blinked and I missed it. 30th over: New Zealand 77-3 (McCullum 24 Flynn 13)David Gower wants to be picky about Ryan Sidebottom's bowling and claims that's it's "OK" but "not straight enough". True, and that's another maiden. 31st over: New Zealand 82-3 (McCullum 25 Flynn 17)More Monty and Flynn hoiks him from outside off through the on side for four. Tom Chivers flogs the dead horse that is the debate over J.A.O.C. Brown's initials: "It sounds like a US military agency: "Joint Armed Operations Committee", possibly. I could imagine President Bartlet telling Leo McGarry to "Get me the J.A.O.C.!" when North Korea threatens to do something-or-other," he quips, sounding like Mark from Peep Show. "Although since he's only one person, maybe he should be the "Joint Armed Operations Chief". That would make more sense. Joint Armed Operations Chief Brown." 32nd over: New Zealand 88-3 (McCullum 31 Flynn 17)Four dot balls from Sidebottom, then a four and a two for McCullum. This is by some measure the best partnership that New Zealand have enjoyed today, although the England bowlers are hardly straining every sinew. Or, indeed, any sinew. 33rd over: New Zealand 88-3 (McCullum 31 Flynn 17)Maiden from Monty. Jeff Round reckons he knows all about the Maggie Thatcher milk snatcher song: "It's called 70s 80s by Nightmares on Wax," he announces. "Which can be found no doubt on one of their albums, though I know not which one." Grudging thanks. Can anyone help where Jeff gave up? 34th over: New Zealand 93-3 (McCullum 32 Flynn 21)One that keeps low from Sidebottom gets Nasser babbling on about a "crusty surface". Sidebottom overcompensates and sends a terrible short wide one at Flynn, who gleefully cuts for four. 35th over: New Zealand 94-3 (McCullum 32 Flynn 21)These are the absolute last words on those initials, partly because it's a full 11 overs since the real answer was revealed, partly because it's boring. They go to Matt Kwan who seems to have spent those 11 overs working this one out: "After much pondering of Mr Brown's initials, I believe that his four names have a leadership theme. The O and the C clearly stand for Oliver and Cromwell, just like initials of F.X. are always Francis Xavier. It's just obvious. The J and the A are more problematic. There have been three kings with names starting with J - John, James I and James II. I pick James because King John is more famous for being in Robin Hood tales than anything else. There has been only one royal ruler with a name starting with A - Queen Anne. Inappropriate! However, a number of Alexanders ruled Imperial Russia, so I'm going with James Alexander Oliver Cromwell Brown."Still the good bit about that drivel is that Gmail's automated advertising algorithm suggested I'd be interested in checking out the beautifully named Cromwell Helmets. One run off the last over. 36th over: New Zealand 95-3 (McCullum 33 Flynn 21)McCullum's heart is in his mouth three times, and every time he spits it out and pops it back in its rightful place. The first pops back to Sidebottom, who drops a sharp caught-and-bowled chance, the second slaps his pads but is given not out, the third clips the top of the pad on his back leg and Bucknor rules a tight one in the batsman's favour. Excellent over, but no reward. 37th over: New Zealand 95-3 (McCullum 33 Flynn 21)Broad now tests Darrell Hair's resolve when he hits McCullum's front pad. The batsman is well forward and is not out. Finally we have an answer to the Nightmares on Wax question, by the way. Tom Crane and Harry Sheehan say it's on "Mind Elevation", which is good enough for me. Maiden. 38th over: New Zealand 102-3 (McCullum 36 Flynn 25)Monty goes for seven as New Zealand cruise past 100 and the umpires make sinister faces in front of their light metres. 39th over: New Zealand 102-3 (McCullum 36 Flynn 25)Michael Vaughan has reacted to the umpires' sudden interest in the light and brought on Paul Collingwood to provide something more gentle. It's a maiden and we're kind of drifting to a close here. Still, we have another two days and the Kiwis still trail by 139 so all you doubters who are e-mailing "are we going to let this one go" messages don't need to start crying or cursing just yet. 40th over: New Zealand 108-3 (McCullum 38 Flynn 29)Daniel Flynn takes New Zealand to 108 and earns his highest-ever score in Test cricket as he cuts Collingwood for four and reaches the dizzy heights of 29. That's also the 50 partnership. Ordinarily Joe Need's email wouldn't get anywhere near this non-commercial editorial, since it's a fairly blatant plug. But, cloaked as an answer to the already-answered Nightmares on Wax question, he tells us that "'70s and 80s' is on their 2002 album, 'Mind Elevation' which you can purchase from our record shop in Nottingham (Selectadisc)." I used to love Selectadisc on Berwick Street in London and am very glad to hear from you, Joe. I only wish you hadn't closed the Soho shop: it was the best place to get anything on vinyl in London and is much missed. 42nd over: New Zealand 113-3 (McCullum 43 Flynn 29)Michael Vaughan has a word with Darrell Hair and asks him just how murky it is at Trent Bridge. "Not that murky, mate," says Hair, and Vaughan says: "In that case, give us six of your best, Ryan," and brings Sidebottom back into the attack. Not quite six of the best from the restored paceman as McCullum moves onto 43. (Meanwhile I seem to have lost an over along the way here. That was the 42nd over of the innings, with 17 remaining, light permitting. I don't know where the missing over went, but apologise to anyone attached to it.) 43rd over: New Zealand 116-3 (McCullum 44 Flynn 31)Stuart Broad comes around the wicket to Flynn and tempts him into a pull shot. He mistimes it and it goes high towards the deep, where Monty Panesar scampers around but can't reach it. They're still talking about the light, but the quicks are still on. 44th over: New Zealand 128-3 (McCullum 56 Flynn 31)Three consecutive boundaries from the first three balls of Sidebottom's over take Brendon McCullum past 50 and give England something to think about. Each one is middled beautifully, through the covers and then slapped through the leg side. Sidebottom recovers, but that's McCullum's over. Meanwhile, you're now all doubting whether the Nightmares on Wax song is actually the one with the Maggie Thatcher milk snatcher line and I don't care anymore. 45th over: New Zealand 128-3 (McCullum 56 Flynn 31)A maiden for Stuart Broad. Here's the match situation: New Zealand, following on, are 128-3 and are trailing England by 113 runs. 46th over: New Zealand 133-3 (McCullum 61 Flynn 31)Brendon McCullum weathers a couple of late-day swingers from Sidebottom that aren't on the right line. Then he drives straight down the ground, upp-ish but safe, and takes four. He chances a quick single at the end of the over and gives Broad a chance to run him out. But he misses and McCullum survives. Like England's bowlers, I'm running out of steam here. 47th over: New Zealand 134-3 (McCullum 62 Flynn 31)Botham is back in the booth just as the light fades a little, giving him the chance to go through his familiar rant about how it has to be dangerous before they should consider going off for bad light. "When you've got packed houses, blah, blah, blah." Well, he's probably right, but we've heard it so many times before. One from the over. 48th over: New Zealand 141-3 (McCullum 64 Flynn 36)James Anderson is back so it can't be that gloomy. The contrast on this Tosumi (what?) television at Guardian Towers isn't quite sharp enough for me to make an informed judgment, or even an ill-informed guess. Flynn rolls his wrists and works one down to the the fine leg boundary. 49th over: New Zealand 148-3 (McCullum 67 Flynn 40)Panesar is back and bowls pretty well, finding a bit of turn and getting McCullum to slash at one that bumbles away for three. He's looser and shorter against Flynn, who works consecutive deliveries on to the on side for two each. The football is now into the second half, every unfortunate office-based soul has clearly drifted home, no one is emailing, and it's just me and my Tosumi talking to nobody. But I'm comfortable that way. WICKET! McCullum b Anderson 71 (50th over: New Zealand 152-4 (Flynn 40 Hopkins 0)McCullum times one beautifully through the covers off Anderson to bring up the 150 for New Zealand. But Jimmy bites back! Anderson bangs one in and has McCullum dangling his bat outside off; it takes a thick inside edge and scatters the timbers. It feels like it's been ages since that last happened, and that's a big breakthrough for England and one to rouse the spirits late on. 51st over: New Zealand 152-4 (Flynn 43 Hopkins 0)Nothing like a wicket and/or a brief whinge from an OBO reporter to get the e-mails flowing. "Today's Guardian Review suggests Middleton was to Shakespeare as Caravaggio to Michaelangelo. Can we not say the same might apply to Broad and Flintoff?" asks John Starbuck, who might have overestimated the literary nous of the average late-Saturday cricket reader. But the floor is open. Three from Monty's latest. 52nd over: New Zealand 159-4 (Flynn 45 Hopkins 1)Stephen Davenport has cracked the Margaret Thatcher milk snatcher/Nightmares on Wax teaser set at about 7.48 this morning. It's not Nightmares on Wax at all and is, in fact, Chubb Rock who sings "crumb-snatcher Thatcher" on the song "What's the Word". Thank god. Hopkins is off the mark at Trent Bridge, and the light has got better again. 53rd over: New Zealand 161-4 (Flynn 46 Hopkins 1)Stuart Broad is back and that's as routine an over as you can get, the descriptive words for which escape me. Seven overs left. 54th over: New Zealand 166-4 (Flynn 47 Hopkins 6)Eight wickets have fallen today and, on paper, that might suggest a fairly entertaining day. But the truth, from me to you on the virtual paper of cyberspace, is that it's been a bit of a drag. After Broad took those two first innings wickets early in the afternoon session, everyone has been on autopilot and the late flourish from McCullum and Flynn has postponed the inevitable until tomorrow. Hopkins here cuts Anderson for four and umpire Hair reaches for the light metre again. Going through the motions as well. 55th over: New Zealand 168-4 (Flynn 49 Hopkins 6)Monty comes back and fails to trouble Flynn until the final ball, when he turns one into the left-hander's pads. But he's well outside and is not out. Flynn edges closer to his 50, which is a remarkable achievement for a batsman who's seemed to be a sitting duck in the series so far. 56th over: New Zealand 169-4 (Flynn 49 Hopkins 7)One off Anderson's over, and that's likely to be his last of the day since the light is properly fading now. 57th over: New Zealand 169-4 (Flynn 49 Hopkins 7)Monty pleads with Darrell Hair for the chance to bowl one last over at Hopkins and the big bad Australian finds it in his heart to grant Panesar his wish. Monty doens't manage much more than a mediocre maiden. WICKET! Flynn c Ambrose b Sidebottom 49 (58th over: New Zealand 169-5 (Hopkins 7 Oram 0)Michael Vaughan brings on Ryan Sidebottom again for what is, according to Michael Holding, the 13th bowling change of the session. He's been counting and I believe him. The variable light has been partly responsible for that, but so has Vaughan's typically innovative captaincy. And, guess what, it works! Stuck on 49 for a couple of overs and chasing his maiden Test match 50, Daniel Flynn gets impatient and swats at a swinging one from Sidebottom, wide outside off. He nibbles it and Ambrose dives in front of first slip to take it and end Flynn's dashing resistance one run short of the half century. 59th over: New Zealand 169-5 (Hopkins 7 Oram 0)Monty. Maiden. 60th over: New Zealand 177-5 (Hopkins 7 Oram 8)And that, folks, is that. Ryan Sidebottom takes the last over, to Jacob Oram, and clearly fancies his chances against the Kiwi, especially after Vaughan gives him the full complement of 912 slips. But Oram lofts the first one straight for four, then cuts past the slips for four more. And then it all gets a bit end-of-day-daft before the umpires lift the bails. Stumps! Thanks for your e-mails. Bull will be back tomorrow. 