The Libyan Investment Authority has lost its $1.2bn lawsuit against Goldman Sachs in the high court. The judgment was handed down in London on Friday by Mrs Justice Rose who presided over the high-profile case that began in June with allegations of Goldman bankers paying for prostitutes, private jets and five-star hotels to win business from the Libyan sovereign wealth fund set up under the Gaddafi regime. The LIA was claiming $1.2bn (£846m) from the Wall Street investment bank for losses on nine complex share trades between January and April 2008. The LIA had argued that the case involved “abuse of trust, undue influence and unconscionable bargain”, alleging that the investment bank exploited its limited financial experience. But Goldman disputed the claim, which was filed in 2014, as a case of buyer’s remorse.  The LIA left open the prospect it might appeal. “The Libyan Investment Authority is naturally disappointed with the judgment … Time will be needed fully to digest the judgment and all options are being considered at this time,” the $60bn fund said. Goldman described the result as “a comprehensive judgment in our favour”.  Rose heard evidence from the LIA that Goldman had lavished hospitality on its staff to win business from the cash-rich fund – but rejected the contention that this meant the bankers could exert influence over the fund.  In her judgment, she said: “I find that there was no protected relationship of trust and confidence between the LIA and Goldman Sachs. Their relationship did not go beyond the normal cordial and mutually beneficial relationship that grows up between a bank and a client. Goldman Sachs did not become a trusted adviser or a ‘man of affairs’ for the LIA.” Nor, she said, did Goldman take advantage of the LIA’s misunderstanding of the complexity of the trades. “I find that the key people in the LIA who needed to understand the trades did discuss and agree the structure of the trades with Goldman Sachs,” she said.  “Although the disputed trades may be regarded as unsuitable for a sovereign wealth fund, there were other reasons why the LIA wanted to enter into them and, if they were unsuitable, they were no different from many other investments that the LIA made over the period in that regard,” she said. She also said that a Goldman internship offered to Haitem Zarti – the brother of Mustafa Zarti, the LIA’s former deputy chief – had not had an influence in LIA’s decision to enter into the trades.  