Consumer confidence has continued to recover from the shock of June’s Brexit vote, with a key gauge of sentiment back to its pre-referendum level – but economists warn rising prices could soon sour shoppers’ moods. A poll by market researchers GfK had recorded a sharp slide in confidence after June’s decision to leave the EU prompted political and financial market turmoil. But since the formation of a new government and Bank of England action to shore up the economy, sentiment has recovered.  The September survey puts confidence levels back where they were shortly before the 23 June vote. The headline confidence index rose to -1 in September, up from -7 in August and -12 in July. The reading beats forecasts for a smaller improvement to -5 in a Reuters poll of economists.  GfK said its poll of 2,000 people showed they were more upbeat about their personal finances and the state of the economy. They were also more confident that now was a good time to make big purchases such as furniture or electrical goods. “British consumers appear to have shrugged off Brexit fears about the economy as wages continue to grow faster than prices, rising employment boosts income, and low interest rates encourage people to spend rather than save,” said Joe Staton at GfK. However, Staton questioned how sustainable the mood of optimism was, echoing analysts who warn confidence could deteriorate as Brexit negotiations begin in earnest. For now, the figures will reassure Bank of England policymakers that the interest rate cut to a record low of 0.25% and hints of a further cut have helped restore confidence. They will also be cheered by a separate poll suggesting business sentiment improved in September. The main reading on the monthly Lloyds Bank business barometer increased by eight points to 24%, helped by growing optimism over the UK’s economic prospects. That was a significant improvement on the 6% recorded in the immediate aftermath of the referendum. But it was still below the long-term average of 32%. Lloyds surveyed around 300 firms. There were also mixed signals in lending figures from the Bank. The number of loans approved for house purchases dropped in August to the lowest level for almost two years. Unsecured consumer borrowing, such as on credit cards, continued to grow.  Experts warned that consumers could soon see their spending power eroded as an uncertain economic outlook threatens the jobs market and as the weak pound stokes inflation by raising the UK’s import costs. There was already some evidence of that in a report tracking disposable incomes from supermarket Asda (pdf). It showed there had been barely any growth over the last five months in the amount of spare cash that households had left over after covering housing costs, taxes and essentials such as food.  In year-on-year terms, disposable incomes were still rising but at a slower pace. At an average £201 a week, discretionary incomes were up 5.3% on a year earlier – the weakest growth since October 2014. The stagnation in spending power in recent months reflected slower wage growth, higher transport costs and rising food prices, according to Asda’s report, compiled by the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR). But August’s interest rate cut had helped to offset some of those rising costs by driving a further fall in monthly mortgage payments. Sam Alderson, economist at CEBR, commented: “While the initial turbulence has been navigated, improvements in household finances have slowed, a process that could accelerate if rising production costs begin to feed into prices at the tills.” 