Two major record labels are rolling out a low-priced UK music streaming service under the Now That’s What I Call Music brand, previously best known for its long-running compilation album series.  Now That’s What I Call Music, a joint venture between Universal Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment, is reportedly finalising a streaming app called Now Music+ that will offer playlists of hit songs for £4.99 a month, or £5.99 if purchased in Apple’s App Store. The first Now compilation was released in November 1983 on vinyl and cassette, featuring songs including Phil Collins’ You Can’t Hurry Love, Duran Duran’s Is There Something I Should Know and Culture Club’s Karma Chameleon. The series later migrated to CD and has clocked up 94 editions.  Now Music+ was quietly activated this summer amid preparations for a broader rollout, according to two insiders. Although the app is limited to the UK, “this may change in the near future”, the company writes on its website.  The move comes at a pivotal moment for the music industry: streaming is rapidly emerging as many labels’ leading source of revenue, but they continue to engage in tough negotiations with tech firms over licensing terms, which heavily influence final pricing for consumers. With streaming firms struggling to turn a profit and overall music revenues remaining well below the CD era, labels are under pressure to bridge the divide between the free, ad-sponsored tiers popularised by Spotify and YouTube and the ad-free £9.99 all-you-can-hear subscriptions.  Amazon is reportedly working on a service that lets users stream music on their voice-powered Echo speakers for less than a normal subscription. Pandora is putting the finishing touches on a premium subscription radio tier.  “We are moving away from one-size-fits-all subscriptions,” said Ted Cohen, managing partner of TAG Strategic, a digital entertainment consultancy. “There is a certain spoken and unspoken imperative by all the rights holders to make the pie a little bit bigger.”  Sony and Universal declined to comment. Amazon, Spotify and Pandora also declined to comment.  Although the Now app features a limited catalogue and does not allow users to listen to songs on demand, it allows the firms to compete with the streaming companies, which are increasingly important partners, said analyst Mark Mulligan of MIDiA Research.  As they launch the Now app, the labels must “tread carefully because you can only go so far competing with your retail partners”, Mulligan said. Still, the industry had taken a long overdue step in creating more options than a 9.99 monthly subscription or a free, ad-supported stream, he added.  They’re making people choose between a luxury car and getting the bus with nothing in between, Mulligan said. “There’s no other market that behaves like that.”   