The last remaining branches of BHS are expected to close this weekend. Administrators to the department store chain will shut the last remaining 22 stores on Sunday, bringing an end to 88 years of British retail history. Duff & Phelps and FRP Advisory have already overseen 141 closures over recent weeks, including BHS’s flagship Oxford Street store in the West End of London. The department store’s collapse in April has led to the loss of 11,000 jobs, affected 22,000 pensions, sparked a lengthy parliamentary inquiry, and left its high-profile former owners potentially facing a criminal investigation. Retail billionaire Sir Philip Green bore the brunt of the public fallout, having been branded the “unacceptable face of capitalism” by furious MPs. Green owned BHS for 15 years before selling it to serial bankrupt Dominic Chappell for £1 in 2015. Green has come under fire for taking more than £400m in dividends from the chain, leaving it with a £571m pension deficit, and for selling it to a man with no retail experience. Veteran Labour MP Frank Field has asked the Serious Fraud Office to launch a formal investigation into the pair to ascertain if any criminal wrongdoing occurred during the sale of the chain and throughout their respective ownerships. It has also emerged that Field is investigating Green’s Arcadia retail empire, which includes Topshop. Discussions with the Pensions Regulator would see Green paying less than half the £700m politicians have demanded he contribute to the £BHS pension fund, the Financial Times reported on Friday. The proposals outlined would mean the billionaire paying less than £350m – and possibly considerably less than that sum – the FT quoted sources familiar with the negotiations as saying. However, the talks, which began in June, are still very much “work in progress”. Politicians initially called on Green to meet the £571m shortfall in the pension fund, but have since said he should contribute £700m. John Hannett, the general secretary of the shopworkers’ union Usdaw, said: “Wherever the blame lies for the demise of this once great British retailer, it certainly is not with the staff, who are paying a high price for corporate decisions that have led us to where we are today. “There remain some very serious questions that need to be answered, by former owners of the business, about how a company with decades of history and experience in retail has now come to this very sorry end. In the meantime, we are providing the support, advice and representation our members require at this difficult time.” Exeter Surrey Quays, London St Enoch Centre, Glasgow Metrocentre, Tyne and Wear York Merryhill, West Midlands Romford Harrow Doncaster Walthamstow Uxbridge Bexleyheath Leicester Norwich Belfast Kingston Hanley St James, Northampton Swansea Wood Green Cribbs Causeway, Bristol St Albans 