Inmarsat shares are flying high after the satellite communications specialist beat City expectations with its latest update. The company reported a near 6% rise in third quarter revenues and a 13.5% increase in earnings to $204.6m, helped by growing demand from airlines for its onboard wifi services and new government contracts. This offset continuing weakness in its maritime business. On Wednesday, the day before the results, British Airways owner International Airlines Group said it would Inmarsat’s network to provide wifi on its short-haul fleets from 2017. Inmarsat had already signed up Lufthansa, Air New Zealand and another unnamed European carrier. But it said its fourth Global Express satellite would be delayed until 2017 following problems at SpaceX, the proposed launch partner where a rocket exploded in September. This would reduce capital expenditure this year from $500m-$600m to $400, to $500m, and the impact of the delay was yet to be determined. Chief executive Rupert Pearce said: Trading continues to be challenging, with economic and budgetary pressures affecting our customers generally. We are nevertheless competing aggressively and successfully in each of our core markets. The company’s shares have jumped 71.5p or nearly 10% to 801.5p, and analysts at Credit Suisse issued an outperform rating: Inmarsat has reported a solid third quarter with (1) revenue 1% ahead of consensus as better than expected Government revenues offset weaker Maritime revenue; (2) a 7% EBITDA beat versus consensus; (3) a reiteration of both 2016 and 2018 revenue guidance; and (4) IAG yesterday confirming it intends to use Inmarsat for passenger connectivity on its short-haul European fleet.  Three recen tmajor commercial airline announcements further boost future committed revenue. IAG (short-haul341aircraft), Air New Zealand and another European airline have all recently confirmed they will be using Inmarsat’s GlobalXpress and/or European Aviation Network (EAN) for passenger connectivity. Added to three recent major Maritime deals, the recent US Navy contract win and three committed revenue deals in Government, Aviation & Enterprise signed several years ago, we believe the airline announcements further underpin Inmarsat’s 3-5 year growth outlook.  Jefferies was also positive: Being a bear on Inmarsat feels increasingly difficult. Key legs of the bear thesis (cost inflation, relative competitiveness, revenue visibility, HTS - High-throughput satellite -cannibalisation of L-band) are successively getting kicked out from under it. The third quarter results were another (albeit, pretty big) milestone on this return to better sentiment. Even after today’s move, we remain conviction buyers of the name. When you’ve de-rated 40% because no-one believes your 2018 growth story any more, a 2016 quarterly print doesn’t add much one way or another. But for the record, mobile satellite service revenue was +0.8% ahead of consensus, mobile satellite service EBITDA +7.2% ahead. Within the mix Maritime was soft (-4.2%) and Government was very strong (+13.1%) 