Strong export sales saved the eurozone from stagnation in the second quarter of the year as investment slowed and domestic consumers held back on spending. Figures showed exports from the 19-member currency bloc increased 1.1%, after stagnating in the first quarter.  But this surge in sales abroad was offset by flat investment, reduced stockpiles of goods, stalled government spending and only marginally higher consumer spending that restricted the overall growth rate to 0.3%.  Economists said the lack of a strong impetus from domestic spending would likely to put pressure on European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi to ramp up his support for the eurozone economy when he holds a press conference on Thursday. Karen Ward, chief European economist at HSBC, said the more detailed breakdown of GDP growth in the latest figures showed that consumer spending, the key driver of growth for much of the last eighteen months, slowed as the boost from ow oil prices faded. “Investment is likely to remain lacklustre due to weak global trade and political uncertainty including Brexit. So the second half of the year is likely to be sluggish,” she said. The UK’s referendum vote, a series of terrorist incidents and the ongoing refugee crisis have made consumers in the eurozone wary of making large purchases and a broad slowdown in global trade is likely to dent exports. But the German and French governments are not expected to boost spending ahead of general elections next year, leaving consumers and export industries to generate growth.  Germany, which has reported a record trade surplus for the last year, has already planned a balanced budget for 2017 that will do little to boost much-needed public infrastructure investment. France, which has limited scope to boost spending without further breaching EU budget rules, has attempted to increase employment and GDP growth through a series of liberalising reforms. Bert Colijn, senior eurozone economist at ING Financial Markets, said with exports to important trading partners like the UK under pressure, the eurozone had “little left in the tank to boost growth in the final months of the year”. He said: “Consumption could recover somewhat, but no miracles can be expected with weakening employment growth. It therefore seems likely that growth will slow down somewhat further in the months ahead.” Overall, the eurozone economy grew by 0.3% in the three months to the end of June, in line with preliminary estimates and by 1.6% over the previous year. Growth in the first quarter was revised down a touch to 0.5% from 0.6% and economists predicted that the rest of the year would prove tough going for businesses and household spending. Howard Archer, chief European economist at IHS Global Insight, said the 1.5% growth he has pencilled in for this year would not be repeated in 2017, when growth was forecast to drop to 1.2%. Draghi will give his verdict on the latest eurozone figures on Thursday at the ECB’s regular press conference in Frankfurt. Ewen Cameron Watt, senior director at BlackRock Investment Institute, said Draghi should pump more funds into the eurozone economy and widen the number of tools used by the ECB to counter a slowdown over the next year. 