US telecoms giant AT&T is reportedly in advanced talks to acquire Time Warner, the media company whose star assets include HBO, Warner Brothers and CNN. A deal could come as early as this weekend, according to the Wall Street Journal. Both companies declined to comment. A merger of the two firms would come as telecoms companies have shown an increasing interest in media and tech takeovers. Verizon is currently in negotiations to buy Yahoo and has already bought AOL, owner of Huffington Post. AT&T, the second largest wireless telecoms company in the US behind Verizon, owns a portfolio of mobile, broadband and satellite TV services that it promotes using Time Warner’s entertainment assets, among others. But a deal to buy the Time Warner empire would rival the last major telecoms and media merger, Comcast’s 2011 takeover of NBCUniversal. It would also awaken memories of another, ill-fated, Time Warner takeover.  In 2001 AOL took over Time Warner in a deal now regarded as one of the worst mergers in history. It took a decade to unwind the transaction. Time Warner’s share price rose 9% on the news while AT&T’s dipped close to 3%. Time Warner is valued at $73.5bn, AT&T is valued at $227bn. Brian Wieser, lead researcher at analytics firm Pivotal, said that the deal was a possibility but would present the new entity with potentially insurmountable difficulties.  Wieser said that while the marriage of a producer and a distributor might at first look similar to the successful Comcast, which owns NBCUniversal, an AT&T-Time Warner entity presented unique challenges. Other entities, he said, made more sense for the always-a-bridesmaid Time Warner. “DirecTV and Time Warner in a lot of ways is more similar than Time Warner and AT&T. It looks like a hedge against the commoditization of infrastructure.” Cash rich telecoms companies like AT&T are facing a crisis as their wireless businesses reach maturity and fixed line income continues to erode. “AT&T is an acquisition machine and interested in empire preservation if nothing else,” said Wieser. “Time Warner has always been for sale at the right price. It’s not a position that creates any synergies, and it does create some dis-synergies, like the problem of managing a global media company from Texas. It’s a standalone entity that gets lost when it’s part of a much bigger conglomerate.” But AT&T is at a crossroads, Wieser said. “If the prospects for wireline growth are negative and the prospects for wireless growth are tepid, what do you do to make sure your business grows?” Time Warner too faces headwinds. The trend toward “cord cutting” – where people get their TV needs over the internet – has eaten into the cable subscriptions that are vital to its networks.  Traditional media companies are also facing increased competition from players including Netflix, Amazon Prime and Google’s YouTube. In August Time Warner bought a 10% stake in Hulu, another streaming service owned by a consortium of established media players. HBO, whose shows include Westworld and Game of Thrones, was once one of the crown jewels of the cable industry. But the rapid changes in the industry forced Time Warner to launch a standalone digital HBO service. A transaction is bound to attract regulatory attention. Comcast, the US’s largest cable company, faced intense regulatory scrutiny during its takeover of NBCUniversal.  