Spending on infrastructure has nosedived since the country voted to leave the EU in June. According to figures from the first full month after Brexit, the value of infrastructure construction contracts for July dropped by 20% to £1.5bn. The consultancy group that supplies figures to the Office for National Statistics, Barbour ABI, revealed that new construction orders were down to £5.8bn in July. According to Michael Dall, the group’s chief economist, economic uncertainty in the wake of the Brexit vote could be stopping private sector investors from putting money into construction and infrastructure projects. With the private sector reluctant to invest in large-scale projects, Dall says pressure is mounting on the government to finance public infrastructure projects themselves. He said: “In the first full month since the vote to leave the European Union, the value of construction projects reaching contract award stage declined in July. This is unsurprising given the uncertainty in the economy. “However, it is the infrastructure sector which has performed particularly poorly this month, and with the change in narrative from the current government, it puts more emphasis on any fiscal stimulus that they may be planning to make.” Although prime minister Theresa May has pledged to put infrastructure investment at the heart of post-Brexit economic policy, analysts fear that the stalled Hinkley Point plans and uncertainty over airport expansion point to hesitancy over investment in public building projects. However, her decision to break with the previous administration’s austerity project has given industry insiders hope that the chancellor of the exchequer, Philip Hammond, will be given the freedom to invest in big projects. Last week Leo Quinn, chief executive of Balfour Beatty, said that industry was “looking for a lead from government”. He added: “Money is effectively free, so it’s a good time for the government to be making long-term decisions on infrastructure.” There was some good economic news, as the value of contracts for commercial office construction in July increased by 22% compared with June. 