Passengers on Southern railway face another three days of heightened travel disruption after the second in a series of 72-hour strikes by conductors started on Tuesday morning.  The RMT insisted its action would be solid, although Southern’s operators, Govia Thameslink Railway, claimed that more than in one in four conductors had turned up for work during the strike last week. Around 61% of Southern’s normal timetable will run, bar further cancellations. Replacement buses will also be offered, with Southern providing some transport service across its network after commuter anger at being left with no alternatives during the first strikes earlier this year. On Monday, GTR said that it would restore the offer of a £2,000 bonus if its reforms to the role of conductors, which would transfer responsibility for closing train doors to the driver on all routes, were accepted. GTR bosses urged the RMT to ballot its members, but the union said it had received a fresh offer and rejected what it called a “bribe”.  The RMT general secretary, Mick Cash, said: “The company have been told repeatedly that money is not the issue and that the safety of passengers and staff is not for sale.” He said that the union rejected claims that many staff had worked during the last strike, adding: “Our reps at all locations report that morale is high and that support for the strike action remains rock solid.”  No further talks are scheduled at Acas. On Monday the transport secretary, Chris Grayling, ruled out getting directly involved in the dispute, which has already resulted in 12 days of strikes since April. He told the transport select committee that the industrial relations situation at Southern was “hugely frustrating” but insisted that the government was not shaping the strategy and talks were best left to the company and unions at Acas.  While Grayling conceded that Southern had been “too dysfunctional” and not worked properly with Network Rail, he again ruled out stripping GTR of its franchise. 