Ticket touts are bracing for an inquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into their tax affairs, after MPs announced a full-blown investigation into the controversial industry. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport select committee said it had heard “disturbing” evidence about the close relationship between touts and ticket resale websites during an evidence session this week. The committee said it believed a fuller investigation into the whole area of ticketing was needed. “The committee intends to write to the secretary of state urging her to study the submitted evidence regarding the under-reporting of income by known touts, and to raise this with HMRC as an area which warrants their investigation.” It said evidence from security consultant Reg Walker, who said touts’ company accounts often did not match up to the sales they made via secondary websites such as StubHub and Viagogo, suggested a tax inquiry was also needed. A spokesman for FanFair Alliance, which campaigns against ticketing abuse, said: “This is fantastic news for all UK music fans and those who have campaigned so long for action. “The dysfunctional market and bad practices of the big four secondary ticketing websites were laid bare before members of the culture, media and sport committee. We anticipate that a fuller investigation of this market will lead to much-needed reform.  “The FanFair Alliance fully supports further actions into the fraudulent activities of online ticket touts and the industrial abuse of this market, as well as an amendment to the digital economy bill to ban the misuse of bots.” The committee initially intended to look into touts’ use of automated software known as “bots” to harvest tickets at the expense of genuine fans, in order to make a profit by reselling them at a mark-up. But it said the evidence session, which included allegations that ticket firms were colluding with touts, had convinced committee members that a broader investigation was needed. “The evidence session … has shed a light on much more far-ranging and disturbing factors in the market, including clear indications of too close relationships between those selling tickets on the primary market and sellers on the secondary market,” said the committee. “Witnesses’ failure to give satisfactory answers to the committee’s questions about where companies’ main profits are made, the possibility of even Chinese walls between parts of the same company, and the willingness of the ticket selling companies to even try to identify, let alone bar, large-scale ticket touts and fraudulent sellers have led us to conclude that a fuller investigation of the whole area of ticketing is needed.” Karen Bradley, the culture secretary, plans to chair a round table discussion about ticket abuse this month, while the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) is due to conclude its investigation into whether ticket touts are breaking consumer protection laws. In the meantime, the committee will recommend the use of bots be banned, weeks after member Nigel Adams, MP for Selby and Ainsty in North Yorkshire, proposed that touts who used them should face prison sentences. The committee said it would decide how to proceed after the CMA’s report had been published. 