Keith Hellawell is accustomed to pressure to quit his job. He endured it as a controversial chief constable of West Yorkshire police – and then memorably again during his quarrelsome stint as an adviser on drugs policy to the last Labour government. So Wednesday’s annual shareholder meeting at embattled retailer Sports Direct – where Hellawell will be bracing himself for investors to vote on his future as the company’s chairman – merely appears like the continuation of a trend. In his current guise, the former policeman has become the obvious target for disgruntled investors in the sportswear chain, which is 55% owned by the billionaire Mike Ashley and has been widely criticised over its working practices and corporate governance. At last year’s meeting, around one third of independent votes failed to be cast in favour of Hellawell as chairman – but the former chief constable’s £155,000-a-year position was unassailable because of Ashley’s support. However, since then, new rules mean that non-executive directors in companies with a single dominant investor must be put to a vote of minority shareholders first. And the past year’s events – which have seen the retailer admit to the Guardian’s revelations it was paying some workers less than the minimum wage, as well as its share price slumping by more than half, plus a string of setbacks with trading at its stores – have focused attention on the company and its chairman.  Hermes Investment Management was the latest shareholder to call for Hellawell to go on Monday. Legal & General, Aberdeen Asset Management and Royal London are also believed to have lost patience with the chairman, as have three of North America’s largest investors – CalPERs, CALSTRS and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan. Still, Hellawell, 74, is used to controversy. Born in 1942 just outside Huddersfield, he is the product of the toughest of upbringings. He has previously talked of how he never knew his father and how as a boy he was repeatedly sexually assaulted by a young man who had access to their tenement rooms. As a teenager he went to work in the coal mines, before joining the police force at 20, where he was promoted to the rank of sergeant in 1965 and inspector in 1966. In the 1980s he was seconded to interrogate Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, and reportedly succeeded in establishing that the serial killer had attempted two further murders. Yet, true to form, even these efforts attracted controversy. One winter Hellawell visited Broadmoor, where he handed a Christmas card to Sutcliffe. “It was just part of the rapport thing [to get Sutcliffe to open up], that was all,” he told the Sunday Times in 2000, but a disgusted Broadmoor staffer informed the Daily Mail and Hellawell was lambasted in the press. It scarcely represented the final attack. As chief constable of West Yorkshire from 1993, Hellawell was again brought to national attention. He was jeered and booed at a Police Federation meeting in response to changes he introduced to the West Yorkshire CID. And during his time as chief constable he advocated several controversial, liberal positions, including the legalisation of brothels and operating a policy of widespread cautioning of cannabis-takers instead of automatically prosecuting them. Even so, he opposed the legalisation of cannabis. It was his expertise in narcotics that led to his appointment in 1998 as the UK’s “drug tsar”, only for that position to be downgraded in 2001 to an advisory role. He fell out with his Whitehall bosses and, while he had already resigned, publicly announced his departure in 2002 during an interview on Radio Four’s Today programme. When quizzed about then home secretary David Blunkett’s plan to downgrade the classification of cannabis from a Class B drug to Class C, Hellawell said on air that he opposed the policy. Pressed on how he could then stay in his job, he admitted that he wasn’t. Last year, his granddaughter was jailed for three years after attempting to sell crack cocaine.  His business career has been almost as newsworthy. He was appointed chairman of Goldshield in 2006, a pharmaceuticals business that was facing a criminal prosecution for colluding to overcharge the NHS for generic drugs. In August 2008, after an eight-year investigation, a judge threw out the case for legal reasons. In 2009 he became chairman of Sports Direct, and his tenure has included a disastrous appearance in front of the Scottish Affairs select committee last year, as well as presiding over a slumping share price that has seen the company relegated from the FTSE 100. Asked in March if he believed he would stay as Sports Direct chairman, Hellawell typically tried to tough it out. He said: “Yes, I do … That is the plan, yes.” Sports Direct’s minority shareholders, however, might have a rather different plan. 