Conductors on Southern trains will walk out on Friday in the eighth strike on the beleaguered railway this year. The RMT union and Southern’s operating company, Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR), both issued statements on Monday proclaiming their readiness for talks, but the parties are yet to agree to a meeting.  The long-running dispute over planned changes to the role of conductors, which the union fears will threaten jobs, has led to 15 days of strikes since April, adding to major disruption caused by staff shortages and engineering works.  RMT members will strike all day on Friday and Saturday, and five more days of strikes are planned in November and December.  GTR said it would rescind a “full and comprehensive offer” made to the union should this week’s strike go ahead. The company has made some guarantees on jobs, as well a £2,000 bonus payment and above-inflation pay rises for two years. It has also offered to run more trains with a second, safety-trained crew member on board. In a letter to the RMT’s general secretary, Mick Cash, GTR’s human resources director, Andy Bindon, asked the union to reconsider its position, stating: “Your unnecessary action is continuing to have a material and negative impact on people’s work and family lives as well the regional economy and I urge you to stop.” GTR said it was ready to meet this week if the union wanted to discuss its offer. However, the company still wishes, in exceptional circumastances, to have the option of running trains with just a driver– a demand the union views as the thin end of the wedge.  Cash said the letter was “completely meaningless, as the union has already rejected the £2,000 bribe to sell out safety and the company are well aware of that”. He added: “The action later this week goes ahead due to intransigence of the GTR bosses and their cheerleaders in government who are pulling the strings in this dispute.  “The union remains available for serious talks and we would repeat the call to transport secretary Chris Grayling to get out of his bunker, get hold of the Southern management and get round the table.” The union will be holding a protest and rally at parliament on Tuesday in support of its conductors, with groups representing pensioners and disabled people joining opposition politicians and unions.  Southern’s full timetable was due to be restored on Monday after months of reduced services and daily, unpredictable cancellations.  It has not yet announced what trains it will be able to operate during this week’s strike, although around three in five trains ran during the last walkouts.  However, a longer, more crippling strike looms in December if the standoff is not resolved, with drivers likely to join the action.  The drivers’ union Aslef is balloting members this month over issues at the heart of the Southern dispute, such as the plans for driver-operated trains, and additional responsibilities for opening and closing the doors at stations. A strike called by Aslef on Southern earlier this year was halted by an injunction due to balloting irregularities.  