Sallie Krawcheck’s first “eureka” moment came just before her 30th birthday. She had walked away from her investment banking job, after realizing she had been relegated to working with the firm’s most lackluster senior dealmaker. She was at home with her two children when it hit.  “I should be an equity research analyst!”  It turned out to be the beginning of one of Wall Street’s storied careers, for one of the tiny handful of women to make it big. Accepting the only job offer she got, from Sanford C Bernstein, in 1995, Krawcheck was its chief executive by 2001. By 2002, Sandy Weill, chief executive of Citigroup, had lured her away to take over as head of Smith Barney.  In 2005, she was chief financial officer of Citigroup and tipped to become Wall Street’s first female CEO. Even her high-profile firing following the financial crisis didn’t derail her career: Krawcheck surfaced as the head of the newly merged Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s wealth management division, charged with overseeing the famed “thundering herd”.  Then Bank of America’s CEO, Brian Moynihan, possibly threatened by her high profile, offered her a choice between departure or demotion. She chose to leave. The aftermath of that high-stakes Wall Street power struggle led to her next great eureka moment. “There are different ways to attack the boys’ club than from the inside,” she tells the Guardian. For years after her 2011 “resignation” from Bank of America, Krawcheck debated with herself. She knew being a woman had given her a fundamentally different perspective on the way that Merrill Lynch’s “herd” of largely male brokers and financial advisers did business, a view that had been shaped and refined by her years at Citigroup. “But I made all the arguments to myself,” she says. “There were plenty of firms out there already” that could opt to do business in a different way, to serve their clients – especially women – better. Except that they didn’t.  “I watched and watched,” Krawcheck says. The percentage of financial advisers at big Wall Street firms that were men remained unchanged, about 85%. And that matters, she says, because they didn’t pay much attention to the women among their clientele, even when they thought they did.  “We’d study this, when a male adviser met with a couple, and ask him how much time he thought he spent interacting with each member of them, and he’d say, ‘Oh, 55/45.’”  In fact, the evidence showed he had spent 90% of his time talking to the man, and not realized it. Unsurprisingly, Krawcheck found that when they were widowed, 70% of Merrill’s clients took their assets and left.  BMO Wealth Institute calculates that women control about 51% of all personal wealth in the US, or some $14tn, and projects that figure to hit $22tn by 2020. Investment firms cannot afford to disregard women or to lose them as clients. And yet they weren’t hiring women as advisers. “One firm used a marine corps questionnaire for hiring,” Krawcheck recalls. Since it wasn’t her job to force Wall Street into recognizing what it was doing wrong, she decided to try to start doing it the right way. The first step was the purchase in spring 2013 of 85 Broads, a financial membership and networking community established by alumnae of Goldman Sachs, which she promptly renamed Ellevate Network, to reflect its new mission: to provide more women with a way to become involved and engaged in their finances. Earlier this year, she rolled out the next stage of her plan, Ellevest: an investment platform designed around women’s needs and priorities, not those of the men who run Wall Street and the firms where she cut her teeth. “The whole icon of a bull that stands for Wall Street – you couldn’t come up with an image of a more male environment,” she says. “Women feel that the brand doesn’t speak to them.”  They also, she argues, speak a very different language when it comes to money, and have very different objectives, which men don’t grasp at all. To the extent that the big Wall Street firms attempt to cater to women, they “pinkify” their offerings, Krawcheck says. Why, she asks, does a woman-friendly approach to investing “have to mean the junior version?  “Somehow there is this feeling that women require remedial financial education and so everything must be dumbed down. The reality is that we all need a lot more education, but guys just go ahead and invest anyway.”  Krawcheck’s irritation and anger at this kind of systemic bias – and its impact on women, who end up so alienated by the Wall Street system and so daunted by the difficult of finding a firm or an independent adviser who will listen to them that they simply avoid seeking out the investment advice they need – creep through her trademark charm and humor.  When others suggest that it doesn’t make sense to focus on the investment gender gap because it’s more important to close the gender pay gap first, you can almost hear her grit her teeth before answering.  “That’s like saying you broke your arm and you broke your leg, but I’m not going to fix your broken arm because I can’t fix your broken leg yet!”  As far as the gender pay gap itself is concerned, she has no patience at all. “Just friggin’ pay them more” is Krawcheck’s message to companies that still compensate men and women inequitably. “Oh, and if you haven’t stopped to check whether you have a gender pay gap? You do.”  And now Krawcheck has created a place where those women, tired of testosterone-fueled investment jabber about relative price/earning ratios and the best mid-cap growth mutual fund to pick, can find an investment home. Krawcheck’s Ellevest does not “pinkify” investing, she insists, but it does start the process in a very different way. Ellevest’s objective isn’t to design a portfolio that will beat the market or focus on the exciting investment concept of the day. Instead, the robo-adviser designs portfolios based on the user’s investment time horizon and risk tolerance.  “Women think in terms of goals-based investing,” she explains. It’s slightly pricier than rivals (the fee is 0.5% of assets a year), but cheaper than working with a traditional financial adviser would be. Moreover, as Krawcheck points out, it’s a process designed to ensure that women actually feel that their portfolios and goals are in sync.  “Women value capital preservation many times more than men, but you won’t find that reflected” at Merrill Lynch or anywhere else in the industry, she argues. It’s early days still. If the company thrives, however, there’s no downside: success will give women an alternative to the Merrill Lynches of the world and give the latter a much-overdue wakeup call, the kind that its leaders couldn’t or wouldn’t listen to from inside the walls.  Welcome to Wall Street’s girls’ club.  