All roads lead to Rome, and experience would suggest, all autumn statements lead to roads. Under Alistair Darling there was an M1 upgrade in what was then called a pre-budget report. His Conservative successor George “we are the builders” Osborne pledged the biggest road investment programme since the 1970s and a permanent pothole fund. Then last week, Osborne’s successor Philip Hammond stuck with tradition and promised to push ahead with road schemes in the “northern powerhouse” and to tackle congestion on key routes under plans to revive the UK’s pitiful productivity growth. Such nods to drivers and hauliers are easily explained in a nation where cars are by far the most popular mode of transport and where almost three times more goods are moved by roads than by water and rail combined. Promises to bust traffic jams and plug potholes are easy wins for politicians – as is endlessly freezing fuel duty.  Similarly, when it comes to appearing to be doing something about the productivity puzzle it is far easier to talk about roads than the thorny issue of Britain’s addiction to low-paid, low-skilled work. But Hammond will not be able to escape this reality if he is serious about raising productivity – a measure of what is produced for every hour worked. Likewise, if he and Theresa May want to address the economic discontent that was partly responsible for the Brexit vote he will have to ensure any productivity gains he does eke out are shared by low-paid workers. As the chancellor said himself, Britain’s productivity gap with its neighbours has real repercussions on living standards. “In the real world, it takes a German worker four days to produce what we make in five; which means, in turn, that too many British workers work longer hours for lower pay than their counterparts,” Hammond said. It was a welcome appraisal of a problem that is too often discussed in abstract, jargon-laden terms. But Hammond still fell into the usual trap of turning to infrastructure and innovation for the solutions. Roads and inventions like next-generation electric vehicles are all well and good, but in an economy dominated by the services sector, it too needs attention if the country is ever going to make meaningful inroads on productivity.Of course, many of the technological advances that are made under the badge of innovation can help in the services sector. Internet banking and automatic checkouts are obvious examples. But there is also evidence that services employers can make productivity gains by changing the way they treat their employees. The Joseph Rowntree Foundation has been exploring this link between the prevalence of low-paid work and low productivity. In an analysis with the thinktank, the Institute for Public Policy Research [pdf], the charity found low-pay sectors constitute about 23% of our economy, but account for about a third of the UK’s productivity gap with leading western European economies. JRF is rightly telling ministers to broaden the industrial strategy to include low-paying parts of the economy such as retail, care and catering, and that by doing so they could make greater economic gains and lift hundreds of thousands of people out of working poverty. Finding ways to lift productivity in those sectors is not easy. But if solving our low productivity problem was simple, countless experts would not have dubbed it a “puzzle”. There are three key areas that employers and policymakers can explore, beyond the usual technology fixes. The first is the relationship between pay and productivity. In a classic chicken and egg situation, economists argue over what comes first: low pay or low productivity. There is an argument that employers can only afford to raise wages, when productivity goes up. But work by the Living Wage Foundation and others has found raising pay can in turn raise productivity. Better paid workers are more motivated and more likely to stick around and accumulate skills. Seen another way, when employers are forced to pay more, they are more likely to seek ways to make work more productive. Ideally, this will happen with the government’s mandatory national living wage. The second area is flexible working. Consider the case of a woman working for a retailer. She acquires years of experience, then has a child, takes maternity leave and returns to work part-time. Her employer wants to capitalise on the woman’s experience and offers her a senior role. Fearful of how that new role will fit in with her childcare arrangements, the woman turns down the promotion. When JRF commissioned research into productivity and pay in the retail sector by the economist and former MP Kitty Ussher, she found about half of retail workers who already worked part-time said they would only accept a promotion if they could remain part-time. Little surprise then, that the study also revealed half of retail workers felt overqualified for the work they did. Clearly, employers are missing a trick when they fail to help workers find ways to balance family commitments with career progression. Alongside these workers for whom the overriding priority was to have controlled hours, Ussher identified a second group who wanted to work more hours and gain promotion to increase their earnings. Among that second group there was evidence of frustration at the lack of opportunities to get on. This leads to the third area: engagement. If staff do not feel involved in deciding their hours or career path, it is unlikely they will feel ready to share suggestions on how their workplace could run more efficiently. Productivity suffers as a result.  Words like engagement sound fluffy, but manufacturing – which consistently outperforms on productivity – has been doing this for decades. In a well-run factory, staff are actively encouraged to make suggestions on small changes that could raise their productivity, such as the positioning of a tool. It’s called “continuous improvement”.  Ussher’s research found this kind of engagement was lacking in retail, where 72% of workers felt they could see possible improvements in how their business ran, but just 44% said those ideas were taken seriously. With management clearly failing these workers, it was welcome that Hammond’s autumn statement contained £13m for a scheme to boost UK management skills. But workers need more than just better managers to be more productive. They need better career paths, including quality apprenticeships, and they need more economic security, not zero-hours contracts.  Employers are crucial in this and so too is government backing. If the chancellor really wants to “build an economy that works for everyone” he and his fellow ministers must resist the temptation to pick winners at the expense of those working in the vast, low-paying, low productivity parts of the economy. 