Sir Howard Davies, chair of the Airports Commission, has called for a parliamentary vote on airport expansion to be held without delay and reiterated the commission’s preference for a third runway at Heathrow. Speaking at the property conference MIPIM UK in London, Davies also said “the froth has gone off the London property market”. He said he saw no reason why the House of Commons vote on airport expansion should not go ahead straight away. Theresa May has been accused of “dither and delay” by Sadiq Khan, the London mayor, after putting off the vote for another year, amid worries about resignations of Conservative MPs. “I’m very nervous about a situation which says: ‘We can’t do something because people will protest.’ We have a democracy in this country,” Davies told investors and developers gathered at the Olympia conference centre. “We should put it to the House of Commons and see what the vote is, and not take the view that we can’t build an economically rational thing in an environmentally sensible way just because a few people will argue about it. That doesn’t seem to be a sensible way of making policy.” Davies added: “The arguments point very closely towards Heathrow and post Brexit even more so.”  About 70% of tourism at Gatwick airport is outbound while at Heathrow it is the opposite, with 70% of tourism inbound, he said, and Heathrow is the airport that links Britain to markets outside Europe. He was confident that the air pollution issue could be handled, and that the noise issue could be “significantly mitigated”. The Airports Commission examined three options in a report published last year: a third runway at Heathrow, which was the preferred choice, the extension of an existing runway at Heathrow, or the building of a second runway at Gatwick. Davies, who also chairs Royal Bank of Scotland, said he had heard in his meetings with bankers that a number of banks were preparing to move operations elsewhere in Europe due to fears they could lose access to the single market.  “The London property market may not be quite so buoyant if we had some downsizing of the City,” he warned. Citing a recent report, he said: “If we have a messy compromise, we could have a 15% fall [in house prices] and in London rather more than that.” The financier Guy Hands, the founder of buyout firm Terra Firma, challenged the notion that the eurozone could claim London’s financial crown, saying US banks were more likely to relocate to New York than Frankfurt or Paris. “If the financial services business moves out of London, it will move out of Europe and it will affect Europe very negatively indeed,” he said at the same event. Hands, who had favoured the UK remaining in the EU, said Britain now needed to accept hard Brexit and get on with it. Freedom from Brussels was an opportunity to cut taxation and regulation. “It’s not the referendum that matters, it’s how Britain chooses to go forward.” Hands stressed that “nobody has any real idea of what’s going to happen” to the property market. He did point to Britain’s “chronic housing shortage,” estimated at about 1.2m homes. “It’s the fundamental problem of social deprivation. Will Brexit change that housing shortage? I don’t think it will.” Addressing the wider economic impact of Brexit, Davies predicted a further rise in inflation, which hit 1% last month, after the referendum sparked a sharp decline in the value of sterling. He also anticipated slower economic growth in the long term, but noted the degree of the slowdown depended on the nature of Brexit. He was doubtful that the weaker pound would boost British exports of goods, noting that “our goods exports are not particularly price sensitive” and that businesses would take a hit from the higher cost of imported materials. 