Britons spent nearly £5bn at bargain stores such as Poundland, B&M and 99p Stores over the past 12 months, increasingly drawn by fresh fruit and vegetables, with more than 2.2m households shopping there for the first time. Data from market researchers Nielsen showed that spending at bargain stores totalled £4.9bn in the year to July, up 17% from the previous year.  Nearly four-fifths of households in Britain (78%) now buy from them, with more than half shopping at Poundland alone. Together, bargain stores are more popular than the bigger German discount supermarket chains Aldi and Lidl, which are visited by three-quarters of households. Poundland, Poundworld, 99p Stores (now owned by Poundland), Poundstretcher, B&M and Home Bargains were included in the figures. Almost a third of the increased annual amount spent at bargain stores hailed from shoppers switching from mainstream supermarkets and health & beauty retailers. Britain’s top four supermarkets – Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Asda and Morrisons – have been worst affected, accounting for nearly three-quarters of the spending shifted towards bargain stores. “The rising spend at bargain stores is driven by two things,” said Mike Watkins, Nielsen’s UK head of retailer and business insight. “The huge rise in first-time visitors and, more importantly from a long-term perspective, shoppers buying a larger repertoire of products from bargain stores – some of which they previously bought from mainstream retailers.” Watkins said bargain stores should continue to win market share, particularly as they are expanding in retail parks and on the high street, and if the Brexit vote turns out to affect consumer spending. A business survey on Thursday showed that retail sales were expected to slow in the autumn after a summer bounce. The growth in sales has also been driven by bargain stores moving beyond the £1 price tag – almost one-in-four items cost more. Watkins said this “resonates well with shoppers because removing the £1 ‘straitjacket’ allows stores to offer good value across a much wider range of products, which makes for bigger baskets and more expensive trips”. Household items, packaged groceries such as pasta, cereal, crisps and canned goods, sweets and cosmetics are the most popular products bought, accounting for 63% of bargain store sales. However, fresh fruit and vegetables have recorded the biggest rise in popularity, albeit from a small base over the last year, in terms of number of shoppers and frequency of purchase. While shoppers have traditionally visited pound shops for non-perishable items, they are now also stocking up on 2kg bags of potatoes and kilogram nets of carrots and onions. Watkins said: “This is similar to what we saw some years ago with Aldi and Lidl who initially attracted shoppers with special buys for non-food items and low prices on groceries.” However, bargain chains such as Poundland have not been immune to the decline in the number of high street shoppers. The company has admitted that buying its lossmaking rival 99p Stores resultedhit sales. 