The chair of WPP’s pay committee has told MPs that Sir Martin Sorrell is not on a “superstar” salary, months after the chief executive faced a shareholder revolt over his £70m pay package for last year. Sir John Hood was taken to task over the scale of Sorrell’s remuneration by a committee of MPs investigating corporate governance and issues including executive pay and board responsibilities. Labour MP Iain Wright, who chairs the Commons business, energy and industrial strategy committee, questioned whether Sorrell merited such a deal given that the world’s largest marketing services group needs a pool of top executives. “WPP is a massive global success story but one single individual cannot possibly control those global operations,” he said. “So why provide a superstar salary when you need proper management processes throughout the globe?” “Sir Martin doesn’t have a superstar salary,” Hood said. “He has a salary that is in the range of other chief executives in the UK. What Sorrell has is an incentive programme that rewards him highly for value creation, for increasing shareholder wealth. His remuneration is highly levered toward that.” Hood admitted that Sorrell, who has received £190m since 2009, has been “rewarded very highly”, adding that the controversial incentive pay scheme that had been the subject of much shareholder anger was closed in 2012.  However, Sorrell will continue to receive big payouts from the scheme until the new one kicks in next year. The committee also rounded on Jan du Plessis, chairman of Rio Tinto, over top management receiving bonus payouts relating to hitting safety targets despite four deaths at the mining group last year. “Mining is a dangerous business and when you’ve got a 140-year history and never had a year without a fatality, I’m sorry, but … this is a trap of political correctness,” he said. “If you are going to take safety seriously and say to the chief executive you get zero [bonus unless zero fatalities] on safety grounds that sounds politically appropriate but actually it is not realistic.” Du Plessis said the company had an outstanding reputation for safety in the mining industry and that awarding a bonus only in the case of zero fatalities would be “playing to the audience”. Labour MP Anna Turley said the chief executivewere not at risk in the day-to-day mining operations, but received safety-related bonuses while workers were not involved in such schemes. “I’m quite proud of what we pay our people for an important job,” he said. Du Plessis added that it would be unhelpful to allow workers a seat on company’s remuneration committees – one of the ideas opened for discussion in the government’s corporate governance green paper published last week after a series of scandals over executive pay.  “Unhelpful to who?” asked Stefan Stern, director of the thinktank the High Pay Centre. “There is a disconnection between a certain group of people used to very big numbers. They are desensitised to the vastness of some of these numbers. And they have lost sight of that connection through to the shop floor.” Du Plessis said there was a broader problem of executive remuneration being too complex and increasing distrust from the public over the issue. Amra Balic, a managing director at BlackRock Investment Stewardship, said she spent more time talking about pay in the UK than in other countries in Europe. “Boards need to own pay,” she said. “Pay for performance is what we believe in but that needs to go hand in hand with paying for a job done. We will be voting against [remuneration] committee chairman going forward if we feel there is a disconnect between pay and performance.” Balic said BlackRock was preparing a letter to send to 350 UK companies that outlined the company’s concerns including issues such as the calculation of year-on-year pay rises and pension contributions. Balic highlighted issues including pay benchmarking and the use of consultant firms. “We need another careful look and try to wean companies off so-called experts that have set up an industry advising companies,” said Helena Morrissey, chair of the Investment Association and member of the executive remuneration working group it established last year.  