The new head of the Financial Conduct Authority is being urged to remain independent from politicians and instigate change at the City regulator amid fears that rules introduced since the 2008 crisis are being watered down. The call to Andrew Bailey – who took the helm of the FCA in July after a long career at the Bank of England – is made in a report published on Tuesday which says there should be an overhaul of the way financial regulators are run. The report by the New City Agenda thinktank highlights a reversal of some of the changes made since the banking crisis eight years ago. It points to the departure of Bailey’s predecessor, Martin Wheatley, as “a political sacking orchestrated by the Treasury” and intended to signal a softer approach to the City. It describes a weakening of rules intended to hold bankers to account by forcing them to demonstrate they had behaved correctly – the so-called reverse burden of proof – a year ago as the fastest climbdown in 300 years of financial regulation. “There is a clear and present danger that we will repeat the mistakes of history. Much-needed change is already being watered down,” the report said. “The attention of politicians has moved on.  “The vote to leave the European Union will mean that the UK will be in full control of its regulation, but it will also have significant resource implications for regulators over the coming years. Regulators need to redouble their efforts to change their culture and move away from the bureaucratic and ineffective approaches of the past.” Bailey, who is setting out his “mission” for the FCA this week, was called upon to resist political inference. “Leadership changes and the perception of political interference were in danger of making the FCA into a timid and cowed regulator,” the report said. The cost of City regulation is six times greater than it was 16 years ago, reaching £1.2bn a year, as a result of bureaucratic and ineffective rules, the report said.  The report – written by André Spicer, a professor at Cass business school at City, University of London – calls on the FCA to use new powers to name and shame misleading adverts and take action against senior executives. It also calls for the abolition of rules that allow regulators to cite their inability to disclose confidential information about firms. “The current framework has damaged efforts to hold regulators accountable,” the report said. New City Agenda was formed in the aftermath of the banking crisis and is backed, among others, by John McFall, a former MP who used to chair the Treasury select committee. 