Leading shares are moving higher at the end of the shortened trading week, following better than expected UK construction figures and ahead of the US employment figures later. But BT is bucking the positive trend, down 5.45p at 381.15p as JP Morgan cuts its price target from 490p to 440p and its recommendation from overweight to neutral. The broker, said BT faced a number of headwinds including increased competition, convergence and regulation. But analysts at Exane BNP Paribas have counter arguments, and remain buyers: We understand that one of BT’s brokers downgraded the stock last night citing numerous headwinds for its share price in the next few years. We disagree with the vast majority of the bear arguments put forward by this broker. BT remains our top pick.  [On competition] we strongly doubt Sky plan to invest in building Britain more fibre infrastructure.  We think TalkTalk is keen to keep paying big dividends and the company’s balance sheet is already fully geared ...We are cautions about the impact on BT of Virgin Media’s ongoing efforts to expand its network footprint. However, we are encouraged by the fact that in the 18 months to the end of June 2016 (i.e. since Virgin Media started expanding its network), Openreach lines in service increased by around 51,000 even though Virgina’s network footprint expanded by 428,000. [On convergence] we think Openreach will not be split from BT mainly because: (i) Ofcom is wary of a split causing BT’s Pension Trustee to demand significant extra top-up payments; (ii) a split will seriously delay building Britain better fixed broadband infrastructure.  Separately, stung by all the calls for better broadband connectivity, Ofcom says it wants someone other than BT and Virgin Media to build fibre to a sizeable proportion of Britain in the next few years (the regulator thinks 40% of the UK is a good target). Ofcom has repeatedly said this is as important as reforming Openreach. The ‘carrot’ for would-be investors is easier access to BT’s ducts and poles. But also the ‘stick’, we think, will be allowing BT to charge more for wholesaling access to Openreach. We will know if our view is right later this year (Ofcom consultation document) because the regulator’s new pricing regime must be in place by April 2017. Elsewhere Carnival has dropped 124p to £35.42 after Morgan Stanley moved from equal weight to underweight, while housebuilders have come under pressure as the recent strong UK economic data points to possible rate rises rather than cuts. Persimmon is down 34p at £18.36 and Taylor Wimpey has fallen 3p to 162.6p. The sector has also been unnerved by comments from retirement home specialist McCarthy & Stone, which said it had seen increased cancellations following the Brexit vote. Its shares have lost 11% to 185.7p. Overall though, the FTSE 100 has added 34.45 points to 6781.42, with defensive stocks such as pharmaceuticals and energy companies in demand. Hikma is 57p higher at £21.35 and National Grid is 20p better at 1060.5p. Lower down the market secure payments group Eckoh has slumped 27% to 35.75p after a profit warning, partly due to cost over-runs in its US acquisition and a change in its pricing model. House broker N+1 Singer said: The group’s opportunities have not diminished (sales pipeline remains substantial) and we believe the medium-term growth outlook remains very healthy... However, we recognise that today’s news is disappointing and that steps will have to be taken to rebuild investor confidence.  