The Pensions Regulator has warned there are still major hurdles to overcome to secure the future of Tata Steel’s UK pension scheme, which is pivotal for saving the Port Talbot steelworks in south Wales. Tata Steel and trade union leaders have agreed a deal to save 8,000 jobs in the steel industry and the Port Talbot steelworks, with the Indian company committing £1bn of new investment to its UK business. However, the deal is reliant on employees agreeing to changes to the British Steel pension scheme, which has liabilities of £15bn and 130,000 members. Tata Steel wants to shut the final salary pension scheme and replace it with a less generous defined contribution scheme. But the company is yet to confirm how it will fund the existing benefits, with the scheme at risk of entering the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), which would result in a 10% cut to members’ benefits. Steelworkers will vote on the changes early in the new year. The government has reversed plans to change the law so that Tata Steel can restructure the scheme by moving it into a new vehicle and shifting the annual inflation-linked increase in benefits to a lower CPI measure rather than RPI. Instead the government will not interfere in the restructuring and will leave it to Tata, pension trustees and the Pensions Regulator. But the regulator has warned that there is a lot of work to do to resolve the problems facing the pension scheme. It has to approve the entry of a pension scheme into the PPF or any major changes to pension benefits and a company’s commitment to the scheme. As the BHS scandal has demonstrated, the Pensions Regulator has the power to pursue companies and individuals if it believes they have dodged their commitment to a pension scheme. A spokesperson for the Pensions Regulator said: “We note the announcement from Tata Steel and look forward to seeing more detail from them regarding any proposal for the British Steel pension scheme. There are still significant issues to be resolved and we will consider any proposals carefully in light of their impact upon the 130,000 pension scheme members and PPF levy payers.” Tata Steel says it is “working separately on a necessary structural solution” for the scheme, but critics claim the company has not yet revealed a solution that tackles the liabilities behind it. John Ralfe, a pension consultant, said: “Because major disposals have reduced Tata Steel’s creditworthiness, the pension trustees should demand higher deficit contributions, so the total annual cash contribution could easily go up. Closing the defined-benefit scheme does nothing to address the existing £15bn of liabilities.” 