Deutsche Bank surprised investors by reporting a profit for the third quarter of the year, as its chief executive admitted the huge settlement it faces from American authorities for a decade-old mis-selling scandal was having “an unsettling effect”.  Germany’s biggest bank has been rocked by reports that the US Department of Justice might demand as much as $14bn to settle the long-running dispute over the way it sold residential mortgage backed securities before the 2008 banking crisis. Announcing profits of €619m, the chief executive, John Cryan, said: “The results for the quarter demonstrate well the strengths of our operating businesses and the outstanding work of our people. We continued to make good progress on restructuring the bank. “However, in the past several weeks these positive developments were overshadowed by the attention around our negotiations concerning the residential mortgage backed securities matter in the United States. This had an unsettling effect. The bank is working hard on achieving a resolution of this issue as soon as possible.”  He warned staff in a memo that “the situation will remain tough for some time to come”. Revenues were depressed and there were some outflows, the bank acknowledged, as a result of anxiety about its ability to pay the penalty. The bank’s liquid assets – ones it can use quickly to pay demands for cash – fell €23bn to €200bn between the end of June and the end of September. But Marcus Schenck, the finance director, said this had now stabilised. Cryan has made clear that Deutsche – which employs around 8,000 people in the UK – does not expect the final bill to be as high as $14bn and has dismissed reports that the bank has called on the German government for help. Deutsche’s shares plunged last month to levels they last traded at in the 1980s, slipping through €10, and the bank acknowledged that the anxiety about the DoJ settlement had knocked its business. On Thursday its shares were trading at around €13. A year ago they were at €27. Cryan told analysts that reaching a deal with the DoJ and handling other litigation was his “top priority” but the timing is not under his control. He admitted the ongoing talks were creating uncertainty: “Uncertainty that affects the market’s view of Deutsche Bank as an investment, uncertainty that affected some clients’ view of Deutsche Bank as a counterparty and uncertainty that even affects our financial planning and strategy execution.” Cryan, a Briton who has been at the helm of Germany’s biggest bank since last year, said he was personally spending time with clients and attempting to “dispel some of the more lurid myths” about the bank. “We know that when our name is in the headlines for the wrong reasons, our phone doesn’t ring as frequently,” said Cryan, who dismissed suggestions that investors were questioning his strategy for the bank. The sale of Postbank – Deutsche’s high street operation – would not be rushed, he said, until an attractive offer was received. Cryan said he wanted to keep the asset management arm, which is currently being reviewed and is often regarded as a possible business for Deutsche to sell, as an integral part of the group. The profits were a dramatic improvement on the same period last year when Deutsche made a €6bn loss. For the nine-month period, a loss of €3bn has been reversed to a €1.6bn profit. Schenck said a decision had not been made on how bonuses would be paid to staff, but indicated that less would be paid out in cash and more in shares. “In what form variable compensation will be paid is not yet decided. Given the situation of the bank and the profitability situation … having more tied towards the share price development in the future seems to make sense,” said Schenck. 