Waning consumer demand for luxury goods and global economic uncertainty have triggered sales warnings at Swiss group Richemont and its French rival Hermès International.  Richemont, whose brands include Cartier and Montblanc, said it was expecting a 45% plunge in first-half profits as sales of watches and jewellery dwindle. Hermès said it was abandoning its annual sales growth target because the broad economic backdrop was so uncertain. Shares in both companies fell sharply, with Hermès down 6.5% and Richemont down 4%. The luxury sector is being hit by declining sales in key consumer markets such as Hong Kong and Macau, with weakening demand partly driven by a government crackdown on corruption and excess China. In Europe, sales of high-end goods have been flagging after a series of terrorist attacks discouraged foreign tourists from travelling to some of the region’s top shopping destinations such as Paris. Neil Wilson, markets analyst at ETX, said the whole sector was suffering. “The luxury market is suffering. Richemont and Hermes have both delivered downbeat trading updates and their stocks are being sold off in sharp fashion as a result,” he said. “These come after a woeful summer for the sector, with Burberry and Swatch among several notable marques seeing sales and profits falling. Meanwhile Tiffany posted its steepest decline in sales since the financial crisis in May.” Geneva-based Richemont reported a larger-than-expected 14% drop in sales in the first five months of the financial year to the end of August. Analysts had forecast an 11% fall. Sales were down in all regions, with Europe the biggest faller at 20%. The business struggled in Japan, where sales fell by 15% partly because a strong yen depressed tourist spending in the country. One bright spot was the UK, where Richemont said the sharp fall in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote in June was helping to drive sales growth. “Elsewhere in Europe, sales were down, particularly in France, due to a significantly lower level of tourist activity,” the company said. Watch sales fell 19% over the five months, while sales of jewellery were down 16%. Richemont said tough trading would weigh heavily on its first-half results: “We consider that the difficult trading conditions are likely to continue during September. Operating profit for the six months ending 30 September 2016 is therefore expected to be approximately 45% below the prior year’s level,” it said. “We are of the view that the current negative environment as a whole is unlikely to reverse in the short term. However, we remain convinced of the long-term prospects for luxury goods globally, and in particular for watches and jewellery.” Hermès said it was dropping its annual revenue growth target of 8% because of “economic, geopolitical and monetary uncertainties around the world”. It said it would maintain an ambitious goal for sales growth. Despite the caution, Hermès said revenues in the first half of 2016 rose 6% to €2.4bn (£2bn), with growth across all regions. Net income rose 13% to €545m. In Europe sales rose 8%, but the company’s chief executive, Axel Dumas, said trading at its shops in Nice, Cannes and Paris had suffered since the terrorist attack in Nice in July. 