Drax shares have surged more than 14% after the coal fired power plant owner unveiled a series of deals to diversify its business. It is paying £340m to buy power supplier Opus Energy, which was founded in 2002 now has 8.3% of the non-domestic market. Drax has also bought four gas power plant projects for £18.5m. The company is moving away from its traditional coal-fired business, and has converted its plants so that some 70% of the electricity generated now comes from biomass. But it is still awaiting European approval of the contract for difference investment awarded to it by the UK government, and the Opus deal will depend on this. Drax chief executive Dorothy Thompson said: These initiatives mark an important step in delivering our strategy, contributing to stronger, more predictable, long-term, financial performance, through greater diversification of the businesses, delivering more opportunities right across the markets in which we operate. Drax shares are 37.6p higher at 315.2p, while Telecom Plus, which will receive £71m in cash for its 20% stake in Opus, is up 9p at £12.21. But analysts at Jefferies cautioned the price paid for Opus looked a little high, and Drax was forecasting profits at the bottom end of its target range. Jefferies said: In essence, today’s update will we see Drax evolving away from its traditional commodity exposed business towards a more diversified and integrated model. We see three key benefits from today’s acquisition. (1) Opus Energy looks like a well run retail business with attractive margins in a segment that is not hugely exposed to political and media scrutiny compared to the domestic retail market. (2) The deal increases the stability of Drax’s earnings and cash flows going forward. (3) There are also some opportunities for synergies related to Opus’ current trading agreements. The acquisition multiple is 10 times enterprise value/EBITDA which, in our view, does not stand out as considerably cheap. Secondly, this is the first time that the company is making a step into the SME retail market, therefore it remains to be seen whether Drax has the necessary expertise to manage this successfully. Lastly, Drax states that the combined group will be able to provide flexible and innovative energy solutions for customers, it is unclear how much of this could translate into earnings growth and shareholder return. Drax has updated guidance for 2016. Full year 2016 EBITDA is now expected to be at the low end of the £135-169m consensus range as a result of the CfD contract not yet being approved. Despite the rise in Drax shares, the mid-cap FTSE 250 has fallen 70 points or 0.4%, dragged down by spread betting groups after a proposed clampdown by the Financial Conduct Authority. CMC Markets is down 28% while IG has lost 29%. Meanwhile the FTSE 100 is down just 5.17 points at 6741.66, as investors continued to take the Italian referendum and resignation of prime minister Matteo Renzi in their stride. HSBC is 3% higher at 645.1p after analysts at Morgan Stanley moved from underweight to equal weight with a 645p price target, while Royal Bank of Scotland has risen 3.2p to 201p. But mining shares suffered some profit taking with Anglo American down 40p at £12.03 and BHP Billiton 35p lower at 1304.5p. 