Britain’s industrial sector shrank unexpectedly in September as North Sea oil shutdowns dragged output lower, weighing on the broader economy in the third quarter. Industrial output fell by 0.4% over the month, matching August’s drop and disappointing expectations that production would be flat. While mining and quarrying shrank by 3.8% according to the Office for National Statistics, manufacturing performed better than expected with output growing by 0.6%. The figures were the latest evidence that consumer spending has been the main driver of economic growth following the EU referendum, although the ONS said there was no evidence that the impact of the Brexit vote was directly to blame for the fall in industrial production. Kate Davies, an ONS statistician, said: “There are no obvious signs so far of either the weaker pound or post-referendum uncertainties affecting the output of UK factories, which continued broadly in line with recent trends.” The UK economy performed better than expected in the months immediately following the referendum, growing by 0.5% between July and September. However, the increase in GDP was driven purely by the services sector, which accounts for more than three-quarters of the economy and includes hotels and restaurants, transport and business services. Industrial production on the other hand shrank by 0.5% in the third quarter. Although manufacturing output grew in the month of September, it fell 0.9% between July and September. The National Institute of Economic and Social Research estimated that economic growth slowed to 0.4% in the three months to the end of October, from 0.5% in the three months to September. “Robust consumer spending growth continues to support the economy,” said Oriol Carreras, a research fellow at NIESR. “Looking ahead, this contribution from consumers is expected to wane over the course of next year due to a substantial rise in the rate of inflation.” The institute is forecasting growth of 2% in 2016, slowing to 1.7% in 2017. It expects inflation to rise to 3.8% at the end of next year from a current rate of 1%, as a weak pound pushes up the cost of imports. Suren Thiru, head of economics at the British Chambers of Commerce, said the weakness in the UK production sector was concerning, and, contrary to the ONS, said the sharp fall in the pound since the referendum was putting pressure on firms. “The pick-up in manufacturing output in September was unable to halt the overall decline in total industrial output in the month. It is concerning that the longer-term trends show that manufacturing and total industrial output are adding little to overall UK growth. “While the declining value of sterling has provided a boost to some exporters, it has also meant that some manufacturers are facing the increasing cost of imported materials, particularly those who are locked into global supply chains.” 