Cinema workers are counting on the magic of Harry Potter to raise awareness of pay and conditions with a series of strikes around the launch of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them this week. Workers at the Ritzy in Brixton and the Hackney Picturehouse, both in London, are planning strikes to coincide with screenings of the Potter spinoff film between Thursday this week and Monday next week as the latest move in a campaign for the independently verified living wage. Kiv Legate, from the Ritzy cinema, said: “This year’s strike has now been going on for over six weeks with five strike days to date. Picturehouse strikers from the Ritzy cinema and Hackney Picturehouse, along with our union Bectu are being ignored by Cineworld and Picturehouse management, leaving workers with no alternative option but to intensify our action. We welcome a meaningful return to the negotiation table by Cineworld CEO Mooky Greidinger, and urge the company to accept Acas’s invite to settle the dispute once and for all.” The workers say Picturehouse reneged on a promise, made after protests two years ago, to progress towards payment of the independently calculated London living wage, which now stands at £9.75 an hour. The pay rate, based on the amount needed to meet basic living costs, is considerably more than the government-backed legal minimum of £7.20 an hour for over 25s known as the “national living wage”. In 2014 Ritzy workers campaigned to secure the London living wage but instead won a stepped 26% pay rise, which was less than they demanded. Cinema staff, most of whom are on zero-hours contracts, are paid £9.10 an hour which they say is not enough to live on in the capital. At the Ritzy, workers get regular shifts although these are not guaranteed by their contracts. Staff who have worked less than a year do not get company sick pay. Longer term employees only get sick pay if they have been off work for eight days. Workers want sick pay for all staff from the first day they are off ill. The pressure for a pay rise comes as Cineworld, the owner of the Picturehouse group, revealed an 8.4% rise in UK and Irish revenues in the 45 weeks to 10 November. The company described Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, which opens in the UK on 18 November, as one of two remaining major releases of the year alongside Star Wars: Rogue One, which opens in the UK on 15 December. The appeal of the boutique cinema chains has been tarnished by rows over the use of zero-hours contracts and low pay. Film fans have criticised poor pay and conditions when they are paying £13 or more to watch a film. After protests in 2014, the Curzon chain agreed to pay the living wage to some staff and earlier this month became fully accredited to the Living Wage Foundation as it said all staff, including agency workers, would get the independently agreed rate. The Everyman chain recently pledged to move hundreds of staff off zero-hours contracts by the end of next year, although it does not pay the living wage. 