British consumers have recovered some of their swagger after a run of better than expected economic figures calmed nerves following the Brexit vote. A leading poll of consumers found that a panic in the aftermath of the EU referendum, causing the biggest fall in confidence for 21 years, was partially reversed in August. Official figures showing strong high street sales in July and an increase in employment, coupled with a soaring stock market, helped bolster the outlook for the coming year, according to the GfK consumer confidence index. A package of measures announced by the Bank of England earlier this month, including an interest rate cut to 0.25%, was widely seen as an important safety net for households and businesses, offsetting warnings of an impending recession and rising joblessness. The GfK index climbed to -7.5, after slumping to -9.2 in July from -1.2 in June ahead of the referendum.  Joe Staton, a spokesman for GfK, said consumers had settled into a new “wait and see reality of a post-Brexit [vote], pre-exit UK”. “The uptick in confidence is driven by good news from hard data, the combination of historic low interest rates matched with falling prices and high levels of employment,” he said. Consumers said the outlook for the economy and their personal finances had improved, the survey reported. Staton said it was significant that the major purchase index, which monitors the demand for cars and other expensive items, had leapt by nine points to +7, while the savings index fell by 16 points. “We Brits are clearly determined to carry on shopping for today, rather than saving for tomorrow,” he said. However, consumers remain nervous about the future, according to Bank data released on Tuesday, which showed a slowdown after previously strong growth in borrowing on credit cards and bank loans. Net consumer credit went up by £1.2bn in July, according to the Bank, the smallest increase since August 2015 and well below analysts’ expectations of a rise of £1.7bn.  The rate of consumer credit growth also slowed for the first time since December 2014, rising by 10.1% year on year in July, compared with year-on-year growth of 10.3% in June. Martin Beck, a senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said the long-term outlook for consumers was muted. “August may see some recovery, in line with other economic indicators and aided by further declines in borrowing costs. But longer term, a less benign environment for consumers, reflecting a rise in unemployment and the squeeze on incomes from higher inflation, suggests that households’ appetite to borrow will stay relatively subdued.” Credit card lending was broadly unchanged in July, but personal loans almost halved from £1.3bn to £700m, consistent with a slowdown in purchases of big-ticket items such as cars.  Scott Bowman, a UK economist at consultancy Capital Economics, said the Bank lending figures showed that the Brexit vote had dented households’ appetite for debt. “The latest figures suggest households’ debt appetite has taken a bit of a hit post- referendum. But support from policymakers should prevent household borrowing from slowing too much,” he said. The interest rate cut would prevent the UK economy from slipping into reverse, he said. “Accordingly, we think consumer spending will ensure GDP growth falls to around zero in the second half of this year, rather than turning significantly negative.”  Announcing the rate cut, the Bank’s governor, Mark Carney, said the economic outlook for Britain had changed markedly. But several economic indicators suggested that the UK economy has so far absorbed the shock of the referendum result. This month, the Office for National Statistics reported that retail sales volumes rose by 1.4% month on month and 5.9% year on year in July. The good economic news continued when the ONS said the jobless benefit claimant count fell by 8,600 to 763,600 in July. Last week, the CBI distributive trades survey, a monthly healthcheck for retailers and wholesalers, found that they had enjoyed their best month in August for half a year as shoppers bagged summer clothing bargains. 