Britain’s manufacturers were only just recovering from the last downturn when the Brexit vote dealt a fresh blow to confidence, and the early signs are that the mere prospect of leaving the EU has hit demand for goods rolling off British production lines. Brave timing then for anyone to open a new factory, but that is just what a small British bike manufacturer has done. From this month, brightly coloured children’s Frog Bikes destined for stores around the UK and the rest of the world will be painstakingly assembled from 120 parts, packed up and shipped out from a brand new factory in Pontypool, south Wales.  Until now, the bikes have been assembled in China using components from around the world. Now the company is “reshoring”, following the lead of other manufacturers in moving the bulk of their production back to the UK to get better control over lead times and quality.  The Pontypool factory will employ as many as 50 workers and can make 200 bikes a day at full tilt. Frog Bikes employs a further 25 at its head office near Windsor.  Jerry Lawson, who started the business with his wife Shelley in 2013, says there were times last year when it could not keep up with demand and he hopes having production in the UK will address that. “What we have found since we started is we are bad at forecasting and end up out of stock,” he says, standing outside the new plant on a sprawling industrial estate set among gently rolling hills. “This will enable us to be more responsive to the market, have more control over quality, introduce innovations faster, reduce our environmental footprint and create jobs to benefit the local economy,” he says.  The couple, who both have corporate backgrounds, came up with the idea for lightweight children’s bikes when teaching theirs to ride. They felt the bikes on the market were poorly designed for children and in some cases heavier than Jerry’s adult bike. So they worked with Brunel University sports scientists and a Team GB Olympic bike designer to create lighter children’s frames. The designs quickly proved popular with parents and are now sold in 900 independent bike stores in the UK and 30 countries overseas. Turnover has doubled every year and the business turned a profit from its second year. Britain’s cycling success at the Olympic Games may provide a further fillip for the home market. One of the British cyclists to win gold in Rio was Joanna Rowsell-Shand, who is a brand ambassador for Frog Bikes. At the same time, the referendum result brings the risk of recession and a blow to sales. “In terms of Brexit we haven’t seen a drop in consumer confidence yet,” says Shelley. “But I think we will see a little bit of a softening in demand, if consumer confidence does dip. A kids bike, a good kids bike, is a luxury item for most households.” The factory was planned long before the referendum was called and was supported by the Welsh government in return for plans to create new jobs. But now economists are predicting tough times ahead for manufacturers. “I still do think it’s the right thing to do from an operational and environmental point of view, but it will be a longer payback than we planned,” says Shelley. Economists say the Brexit vote will tip the UK into recession at worst or, cause a protracted period of uncertainty and subdued spending at best. But experts also highlight a potential boost to manufacturing from the fall in the value of the pound since the vote, which has made UK goods cheaper in overseas markets. The change of government has also brought hope of a renewed focus on an industrial strategy for Britain.  In the near term, signs of a blow to confidence and activity from the Brexit vote are worrying for a sector that has yet to fully recover from the last downturn.  Manufacturing, which accounts for a tenth of the UK economy, had been picking up in the months before the referendum, but surveys since suggest demand is down and jobs are being cut. A weak pound has boosted exports, but at the same time it has raised costs for manufacturers that use imported materials. For Frog Bikes, it has raised costs because it buys most of its component parts, such as brakes and frames, in US dollars. “The dollar dropping 14% means everything goes up 14%,” says Jerry. Lee Hopley, the chief economist at the manufacturers’ organisation EEF, says there is a clear “before-and-after story” for manufacturing. “Pre-referendum, our narrative was that we thought that manufacturing was turning a corner. Many of the drags from 2015 were beginning to ebb, especially the low oil price … there were signs of recovering demand in big European markets,” she says. “Now the outlook is just a lot more uncertain. What we know is that confidence has taken a hit. What is less clear is how persistent that will be.” Hopley expects to see significant variation between sub-sectors of manufacturing, with the weaker sub-sectors forecast to overshadow pockets of strength. “We see modest growth across the sector as a whole this year but virtually all of that will have taken place in the first half. We had been expecting growth in 2017 and we are not at all confident about that now,” she says. That gloomy outlook will put pressure on Theresa May’s government to show it is serious about boosting manufacturing. After the former chancellor George Osborne’s call for a “march of the makers” failed to get manufacturing back to its pre-crisis strength, May has sought to reassure business leaders her cabinet will do more. There was widespread support for the prime minister’s move to merge the government’s business and energy departments and add the phrase “industrial strategy” to the title. The Lawsons are hoping for a change of direction. They were dismayed when Osborne scrapped the state-funded Business Growth Service in last November’s spending review. Its advisors had helped the couple access finance to expand and apply for grants. Without the service, they would not have set up the Pontypool factory, they say. Frog Bikes now gets help from a mentor provided by the Welsh government, and Shelley would like to see something similar across the UK. “If you think of the number of jobs we have been able to create given the very modest investment that was required … it’s an incredibly efficient way to kickstart the economy at the small-business level.” The Welsh government will be hoping the new bike factory helps reinforce its post-referendum message that Wales is open for business. Wales depends on manufacturing for jobs more heavily than the UK as a whole. The sector accounts for 11.3% of jobs in Wales compared with 7.8% across the UK.  The Welsh government has been working to increase jobs by attracting new investors. In February, it managed to beat off competition from around the world to secure a deal with Aston Martin for a new factory, creating 750 jobs. At Frog Bikes, one of the Welsh factory’s newest employees, 26-year-old Neal Brookfield, is hopeful tthe plant and other moves to reshore manufacturing will create more secure work for his generation. “It’s common knowledge that times are tough for finding jobs for young people, and more so in Wales,” he says. Since he started at the bike factory in July, friends have been calling to ask if he can get them work there. “The difference with this job is it’s permanent … the fact that they couldn’t keep up with demand last year suggests there is a good future for the business.” 