Athletes know all about productivity. Their lives are spent eking out improvements in performance through new training methods, better diets and learning from their rivals. A personal best is productivity writ large: doing better this year than you did last. Sometimes progress is dramatic. The Olympic record in the long jump set by Jesse Owens in Berlin in 1936 lasted for 24 years. Eight years later there was another big advance. Nobody has managed to beat the Olympic-best of 8.90 metres managed by Bob Beamon in Mexico City. This year’s victor in Rio, Jeff Henderson, won with a jump more than a half a metre off Beamon’s record. More often, gains are slow and incremental. Athletes run a few hundredths of a second faster, throw the hammer, the shot or the javelin a few centimetres further. New technology often plays a part: it has only been possible to break the six-metre barrier in the pole vault because carbon-fibre poles are more flexible and less likely to break. Then there’s the murkier side of sport. Productivity improvements are not always just the result of pumping more iron and pounding round the track: they can be achieved by the use of performance-enhancing drugs. It is notable that progress in many events has stalled since testing regimes have been tightened up. The limitations of the human body may mean that it will prove impossible to run 100 metres in less than nine seconds or long jump more than 10 metres. Productivity gains will become slower and slower until they stop altogether. Ultimately, though, it doesn’t really matter that Henderson was unable to beat Beamon’s (altitude-assisted) record. All he needed to do was beat the rest of the field in Rio. Seeing the medals decided in the sixth and final round was still gripping viewing. It matters a lot more that the US, Henderson’s country, saw productivity not just slow but actually fall over the past year. What this means is that output per worker in 2016 is lower than it was in 2015: the world’s biggest economy became less effective at producing goods and services. Falling productivity means Americans are seeing their living standards decline. The UK’s recent productivity performance has been almost as dismal: output per worker grew by 0.2% in the latest 12-month period, well down on its pre-financial crisis trend of 2.3%. Historically, just as with Owens and Beamon in the long jump, there are sometimes big leaps forward. Technological advances such as the printing press, the steam engine and the internal combustion engine change societies radically and can act as the catalyst for faster productivity growth. Yet, in the decades between these paradigm shifts, progress is more incremental. Michael Pearce, global economist at Capital Economics says the rate of productivity growth has been slowing in advanced countries almost continuously since the 1960s. “There are plenty of possible reasons for this, including the fading boost to productivity from previous waves of innovation, the diminishing gains from further economic integration, and the shift of global activity away from manufacturing and towards services.” The postwar period experienced a rapid spurt in productivity. In part, that was because it took time to fully exploit the technological advances of the late 19th and early 20th century. That was particularly true of Europe and Japan, where slow growth during the 1930s and the devastating impact of the second world war meant there was scope for a prolonged period of catch-up with the world leader, the US. But they couldn’t keep up the blistering rate of progress. Rather like someone who is totally unfit joining a running club, they initially make rapid improvements as the pounds are shed and the legs get stronger, closing the gap with the faster athletes. But progress eventually slows. Similarly, it is still possible to squeeze productivity gains out of mature technologies but they are harder to achieve. It is more than a century since the first cars appeared on the streets, yet the auto industry is still looking for ways to make better cars more efficiently.  Economies can grow even when productivity is exceptionally weak, as it has been in the years since the global recession. That’s possible if the labour force expands or if people work longer hours. The problem seems to be the weakness of investment. Companies are tending to employ more labour to work with ageing capital equipment, leading to weaker productivity. Central banks have become like the dodgy coaches administering drugs to their athletes. They have found ways of making performance look better than it would otherwise be. Instead of artificial stimulants they have used ultra-low interest rates and quantitative easing. In theory, individual countries are not supposed to use these unconventional measures to the detriment of their rivals. Loose monetary policy is deemed to be fine if it is for domestic purposes – raising the growth rate or steering clear of deflation – but not if it is to secure a competitive advantage by driving down the currency. But everybody suspects everybody else of cheating. The Americans are convinced that the Chinese are deliberately holding down the level of the yuan in order to boost exports. The reluctance of the US Federal Reserve to raise interest rates is deemed, in part, to be the result of concerns about an over-strong dollar. The Japanese have openly admitted that they would like to see the yen lower. Concerns about the strength of the euro help explain why the European Central Bank is mulling the possibility of fresh stimulus measures this autumn. The Bank of England is in a different position. A cheaper pound would have been necessary at some point if the UK was ever to start closing its colossal balance of payments deficit. Brexit has delivered that depreciation without it looking like an act of beggar-thy-neighbour policy. Threadneedle Street is taking full advantage of the situation: dropping strong hints of further interest rate cuts to come is designed to ensure that the unlooked for competitive boost provided by the referendum is not dissipated. If this were the Olympics, the closest comparison would be the Devil Take the Hindmost race in the cycling omnium. There, the rider at the back of the field drops out every couple of laps, and each contestant pedals furiously to ensure it is not them. Eventually, central banks hope to create the conditions for an acceleration in productivity growth. The idea is that boosting demand will lead to better supply-side performance. That, though, is taking some time. The past few years have been a slow-bicycle race led by China, with the US the best of the developed countries.  Eventually, innovation and more skilled workforces will result in higher productivity. For now, though, central banks are expending a lot of effort for less growth than in previous decades. None is close to a PB. 