This year’s Black Friday will be the biggest yet as shoppers snap up large items such as fridges before Brexit-induced price rises take effect in January, the boss of AO World has predicted. John Roberts, the online retailer’s chief executive, said price rises were inevitable after the pound’s plunge against other major currencies since the EU referendum. Suppliers were starting to charge more and shoppers would feel the full impact by the end of January, he said. AO’s founder said the expectation of imminent price rises would add to consumer willingness to buy new products in the shopping frenzy around the last Friday of November. The period of heavy discounts has taken off since the tradition was imported from the US in 2010. Roberts said: “It has been well reported that with Brexit currency movements prices are going up early next year, so there is a double whammy for customers. So our belief is it will be bigger than ever.” AO posted a £1.1m operating loss for the six months to the end of September, with an £11.1m UK profit erased by a £12.2m loss in mainland Europe, where it is expanding in Germany and the Netherlands. The group recorded a £6.8m loss a year earlier but Roberts predicted the European business would turn a profit in 2020. The pound’s fall against the dollar, the euro and other currencies since the Brexit vote is pushing up prices of goods from Marmite to guitars as suppliers charge more to make up for sterling’s reduced value. Rising prices threaten to squeeze living standards and slow the economy but retail sales are holding up better than expected, with Christmas a few weeks away. Britons are expected to spend £2.9bn over the four days from Friday 25 November, 38% more than on Black Friday weekend last year, according to the accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers. Most of the extra sales will be made online as shoppers shun the chaos and occasional punch-ups in stores by ordering from their computer or mobile device. Some retailers are phasing their discounts or seeking to play down Black Friday. Amazon, which brought the craze to the UK, is spreading its offers over two weeks while Asda has largely opted out, as it did last year.  Research by Which? also found many Black Friday offers last year cost more than at other times. It criticised AO and Currys for advertising discounts that were bigger than claimed. Roberts said AO’s prices were transparent and he predicted Black Friday would be the biggest shopping day of the year. He said Black Friday was here to stay whether retailers liked it or not.  “The genie is out of the bottle … to go back to customers now and say Black Friday didn’t work for existing retailers and we are going to go back to charging full price – it won’t work with customers.” Roberts founded AO as Appliances online in 2000 for a £1 bet. It mainly sells fridges, washing machines and other white goods but has branched out into televisions and computers. The company’s shares, which are up 5% this year, fell 2.3% to 164p in early trading.  