Retail chain Marks & Spencer is to cut up to 500 jobs at its head office in London as part of efforts to reduce costs. The store is expected to make the job cuts as early as next week following a review of the company’s structure by its chief executive.  Steve Rowe, who took control of the retailer in April, had branded the performance of its clothing and home arm “unacceptable” after like-for-like sales plummeted 8.9%.  He has said he wants to trim costs at the head office so he can invest more in improving stores, prices and products for shoppers. The cuts are part of Rowe’s effort to turn around M&S after it suffered its biggest fall in clothing sales since the 2008 banking crisis. The new chief executive drew criticism from staff for saying he would be changing the company’s pay and pension scheme, cutting premium pay for Sundays. The move sparked outrage and 70,000 people signed a petition calling on the chain to scrap proposed pay cuts to offset the cost of the national living wage. In a bid to calm the critics, the company announced on Friday that staff would receive compensation to ensure their pay did not fall below current levels in future. M&S promised a 14.7% rise in basic pay for shop floor staff to £8.50 an hour – and £9.65 in London – from next April, well above the living wage of £7.20 and the voluntary rate of £8.25, and £9.40 in the capital.  But premium payments for Sunday working will stop, and there will be one standard payment for bank holidays, meaning that some long-serving staff would see pay cut by thousands of pounds. The Labour MP Siobhain McDonagh said the proposal “still falls short of the offer that longstanding and loyal staff from Britain’s premier retailer really deserve”. Sacha Berendji, M&S retail director, said: “We’ve listened to our colleagues, acted on their feedback and are pleased that we’ve reached an outcome that gives enhanced support for our colleagues as well as making necessary changes to our business. From April 2017 our people will be among the highest paid in UK retail and receive one of the best benefits packages. The changes will reward our people in a fair and consistent way, simplify and modernise our business and help us attract and retain the best talent.” It emerged on Saturday that a review of costs at the Marks & Spencer head office has identified up to 500 possible redundancies, which are expected` to form part of the chief executive’s strategy to divert resources to the shop floor. An M&S spokesperson said: “We said at our prelims results in May that organisation was an area of the business that needed further consideration and that we would update on this in the autumn. We would never comment on rumour and speculation and have nothing further to add.” Rowe has vowed to improve on Marks & Spencer’s performance since company results in July saw the biggest drop in clothing sales for a decade. The 8.9% fall in underlying clothing and home sales in the three months to July was far bigger than analysts expected and echoed the collapse in performance felt in 2008. “These are not the numbers I want to see by any stretch, but they are the numbers I expected to see,” Rowe said at the time. He added that the company’s reliance on sales and promotions would have to be tempered if the numbers were to improve. “I’ve been clear: we must break this cycle because it is damaging our business,” he said. 