As dawn breaks over the hungover heads of would-be Black Friday shoppers tomorrow spare a thought for the thousands of shop workers forced to lose another holiday to our national obsession with getting a bargain. Thanksgiving used to be an almost sacrosanct national holiday with shopping delayed until Friday. But in recent years retailers have moved to open earlier and earlier, with many opening on the day itself. But not REI, the outdoor equipment and clothing retailer. For the second year in a row the company is givings its 12,287 employees a paid vacation day, closing all of its stores and encouraging its employees as well as the general public to spend the day after Thanksgiving enjoying the outdoors. While REI’s chief executive, Jerry Stritzke, says Black Friday was a “significant retail day” for the company, REI “did not experience any negative consequence financially” from the move last year. Retail analysts have noted that there is a general move towards online shopping in place of visiting stores in person that some news outlets have claimed may signal the death knell of Black Friday brick-and-mortar store sales. Since it is giving its employees the day off, while REI will allow customers to place orders on its website on Black Friday, the orders will not be filled until the next day. The move fits with REI’s general image as an outdoors company that is also a members’ co-op, with a CEO who is himself an avid hiker, posing in photos on top of mountains on the company’s website. At a time when brands look increasingly to find shared values with their customers as a way to stand out, from going green to donating to charities, shunning the usual Black Friday shopping frenzy makes a lot of sense for REI. The company is also promoting its push to get outdoors with a hashtag, #OptOutside. The move has “resonated with members” of the REI co-op, who number over 6 million, says Stritzke, and has been a boost for employee morale. Stritzke cites one store manager who told him her husband proposed to her in a national park on Black Friday last year as evidence that the decision has had a positive impact on employees. For his part, Stritzke plans to practice what he preaches, and will be spending Black Friday hiking with his grandson. REI’s choice to close on Black Friday may catch on with similar outdoors companies, says Stritzke, but he does not expect it to spread to the wider retail world. Outdoor Research, a fellow hiking and outdoors equipment retailer has joined REI in its #OptOutside campaign, announcing that it will also not do business on Black Friday. Several major mall operators as well as chain retailers have also announced that this year they will remain closed on Thanksgiving, including Home Depot, Staples, Nordstrom, Mall of America and CBL & Associates, a shopping mall operator. Public opinion backs the closings, with a poll from the University of Connecticut finding that 49% of customers do not approve of stores remaining open on Thanksgiving day. In that same poll, nine out of 10 people surveyed said they did not plan to do any shopping on Thanksgiving. But none of this is likely to slow the seasonal consumer juggernaut. The shopping sale season now stretches well beyond Black Friday, Thanksgiving and Cyber Monday. This year’s biggest single day of sales will probably go to 23 December, also a Friday, as shoppers seek last-minute deals on Christmas presents without the guilt of forcing retail employees to miss celebrating a major holiday. 