Welcome news: Sports Direct and Mike Ashley have decided they will no longer defend the indefensible. The company acknowledges “serious shortcomings” in working practices at its Shirebrook warehouse that it “deeply regrets and apologises for”. The notorious six strikes and you’re out policy has been abandoned. Past payments below the minimum wage are described as “unacceptable but unintentional”. In stores, staff will be offered the chance to switch from zero-hours contracts to ones that guarantee 12 hours of employment a week. And Sports Direct is not saying the matter is closed: a fuller review of working practices and corporate governance will follow. Jolly good, but let’s not pretend that this report is independent. It was written by one of the company’s legal advisers Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, and sections and phrases read almost as if they were dictated by Ashley. “Ironically, these failings occurred against a backdrop of a genuine intention on behalf of SDI [Sports Direct] to ensure its permanently employed staff were well remunerated, as evidenced by the fact that about £250m in bonuses has been paid to eligible permanent employees,” says one passage. No, no, Reynolds Porter, there is nothing ironic or unintentional about the contrast between Sports Direct’s treatment of 85% of its workers, those on agency and zero-hours contracts, and its willingness to shower bonuses on others. It appears to have been part of a deliberate policy to maximise rewards at the top by squeezing those at the bottom. A more independently minded report could have used the words “wretchedly” or “disgracefully” instead of “ironically”. In a similar vein, it’s startling to hear that only one person, the chief executive, Dave Forsey, is to blame. “At the management level, Mr Forsey had failed to inform the Board (or Mr Ashley) of some of the issues namely the progress of the NMW [national minimum wage] issue in a timely or effective manner over the course of a year or so,” says the report. Too shallow. Concerns about Shirebrook had been aired for years, not least by the Unite union. Protests were staged even before the Guardian’s investigation last year. A well-functioning board would have smelled danger and investigated. Instead, the most remarkable fact produced by Reynolds Porter is that the two employment agencies supplying Sports Direct with 4,000 workers still don’t have a contract and instead work on “custom and practice and/or unsigned terms”. It is a “serious failing”, Sports Direct accepts. You bet. On the ground, it is hard to believe that the security bottlenecks at Shirebrook, which led to the minimum wage breaches, could have escaped the notice of Ashley, a famously hands-on operator who is chief executive in all but job title. Blaming Forsey, and removing his £3.6m share bonus, feels terribly convenient. But it may suit Sports Direct’s purposes if the aim is to escape a shakeup of the boardroom, including a new chairman to replace the hapless Keith Hellawell. The tone of this report, including some silly side swipes at Unite (which was basically correct in its portrayal of life inside Shirebrook), amounts to a plea for the current board to be given more time to complete reform on its terms. Ashley loyalists might argue that since he owns 55% of the shares, he’s entitled to do what he wants. Outside shareholders contemplating how to vote on a number of resolutions at Wednesday’s annual meeting, including the re-election of Hellawell and the need for a fully independent review, should look at the evidence. The current crew of non-executives plainly failed to hold management to account and was deaf to concerns until forced to listen by the Guardian and subsequent parliamentary inquiry. The question for minority shareholders is who would be best placed to enforce the company’s new ambition to be “an exemplary employer”. Common sense says genuinely independent newcomers should replace the current timid and long-serving lineup. Ashley, if he chooses, can roll out his stake and protect Hellawell indefinitely, even if outsiders give the former police officer the thumbs down. But Ashley might reflect that insular bloodymindedness, which served Sports Direct well in its pre-stock market days, when it was fighting a hostile club of sportswear retailers, is no longer a good look. Even Tuesday’s modest rush of fresh air, courtesy of a report by a tame legal firm, sent the share price up 6%. A proper blast of oxygen, delivered by a reformed board, might do wonders for Ashley’s wealth. One suspects that he’ll be loyal to Hellawell et al until the end – but the loyalty is misplaced. 