The Bank of England is not much cop at forecasting what will happen to the economy. It proved as much before, during and after the financial crisis of 2008-09. But even by its own standards, it has got the post-referendum economy badly wrong. Three months ago when it announced a comprehensive package of measures to support the economy after the shock decision to leave the European Union, Threadneedle Street said it expected growth of just 0.1% in the third quarter of 2016 followed by no growth at all in the fourth quarter. If the Bank had been right, the UK would have been a whisker away from a technical recession in the second half of the year. Official figures from the Office for National Statistics show that the economy actually expanded by 0.5% between July and September, and the Bank now believes it will grow by a further 0.4% in the fourth quarter. Forward-looking business surveys support this assessment. In its quarterly inflation report, the Bank admits it has been taken aback by the resilience of consumer spending and by the strength of the housing market. That, together with a plunging pound, has been enough for its nine-strong monetary policy committee (MPC) to ditch plans for a fresh cut in interest rates before the end of the year. With a warning there are limits to the extent to which inflation at above the government’s 2% target can be tolerated, the MPC has handed over responsibility for supporting the economy to Philip Hammond at the Treasury. Inflation is expected to average 2.7% in both 2017 and 2018 – higher than expected in August and the biggest overshoots since the Bank was made independent almost two decades ago. The Bank believes stronger growth than it envisaged in 2016 and 2017 will come at the expense of weaker growth later and that by the end of 2018 the economy will actually be slightly smaller than it predicted in August. Its critics – of whom there are a growing number – will say its inability to map the path of the economy since June means its forecasts for 2017, 2018 and beyond should be treated with a large pinch of salt. Some will say that growth of 0.5% and 0.4% in the two quarters following the Brexit vote means that the August measures – including a fresh cut in borrowing costs and additional money creation through the quantitative easing programme – were a mistake and that the stimulus will add to the inflationary pressure caused by the fall in the value of the pound. There is, though, a case for the defence. First, the Bank’s August package has helped to support the economy. It helped to boost confidence and support activity. Second, the Bank’s explanation for why growth can be expected to weaken during the course of 2017 and into 2018 without diving into recession looks reasonable enough. Both monetary and fiscal policy will underpin growth and the labour market has so far held up well. But although consumers are enjoying increases in their real incomes, living standards will be squeezed as a weaker pound leads to higher prices. What’s more, the uncertainty over the timing and the terms of Brexit means firms are unlikely to be in any hurry to sanction fresh investment for the next couple of years. Even a stopped clock is right twice a day and for the Bank this might be one of those times. 