Admiral shares have fallen after the car insurer said low interest rates following the vote to leave the EU had weakened its capital strength, though it said its financial position remained strong. Announcing results for the first half of 2016, Admiral said lower interest rates had increased the value of liabilities for claims and reduced its capital compared with liabilities. That caused the company’s solvency ratio, a measure of financial strength, to fall from 206% at the end of December to 180% at the end of June. A ratio of 100% means an insurer has enough capital to meet all its liabilities and Admiral said its day-to-day business would be unaffected. Geraint Jones, Admiral’s finance director, said: “What we saw immediately after the Brexit vote were quite sharp falls in gilt yields and risk-free interest rates. Lower interest rates mean bigger claims liability valuations and a lower solvency ratio.” Shares of Admiral, which owns the Confused.com price comparison site, dropped 7.7% to £20.81 in early trading on Wednesday and were the biggest fallers in the FTSE 100 index. Jones said he was not concerned and that Admiral still had a strong capital position. “I would consider 150 to be a very strong solvency ratio for an order of risk profile like ours,” he said, and a figure approaching 200 put Admiral in a comfortable position. Analysts at UBS said the weakened solvency ratio had reduced the surplus capital available for Admiral to pay out to shareholders. After saying in March it would return £150m-£200m over two or three years, the figure has been reduced to £100m-£150m, they pointed out. Admiral said there were further potential risks for its business from the vote to leave the EU, including volatile interest and exchange rates, restrictions on UK financial companies trading in the EU and a weaker UK economy. Jones said car insurance business usually held up well during an economic downturn because it was a legal requirement. “The police make you buy car insurance so it’s not a discretionary purchase. Some people may get rid of their car or downgrade their coverage but sales of our products are fairly resilient.” Hard times might also reduce the number of car journeys, resulting in fewer accidents, he said. Pre-tax profit for the year to 30 June rose 4% to £193m. The company increased its interim dividend to 62.9p from 51p. 