‘Why are you going to the Labour conference?” asked the Liverpool taxi driver. “Well, I’ve got used to attending funerals this year.” “Yes, but not suicides, I bet!” This somehow captured the mood of a conference where the enthusiasm of the “Corbynistas” contrasted with the unutterable gloom and dire forebodings of such traditional Labour party supporters and MPs as had bothered to turn up at all. Here we have a government that is crying out to be challenged on so many fronts, yet the main occupation of the Labour party has been to oppose itself. I confess that, in common with not a few other observers, I could not quite take the atmosphere of the conference and beat a hasty retreat on the Tuesday. Thus it came about that I found myself watching Jeremy Corbyn’s speech on television back at home. It received an execrable reception in the media – as did shadow chancellor John McDonnell’s speech the day before – with cries amounting to “same old story: tax rises, more public spending, masses of borrowing” etc. Now, I fully understand the wrath of the anti-Corbynistas over the widely reported bullying tactics of Corbyn and McDonnell’s “bovver boys”, and the antipathy towards a “Trotskyite takeover” of the party. When I said to one senior former cabinet minister “it’s just like the early 1980s”, he replied: ‘‘It’s worse than that. At least then we were in control.” But there were some good things in the speeches of both Corbyn and McDonnell: they are obviously leading with their chins to boast about “socialism”, even though this word that frightens the media was used in the past by Roy Hattersley, John Smith and even Tony Blair. Once upon a time socialism was closely associated with communism, and the British left had some embarrassing moments with this over the years. Way back in the 1950s, Tony Crosland wrote an influential book entitled The Future of Socialism and phrases such as “democratic socialism” became widely used, and the “mixed economy” became all the rage. After the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989, and the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, many people, including me, were concerned about the triumphalism that followed, as we saw an acceleration of the deregulation that had begun with Reagan and Thatcher, and the obeisance to rampant markets. Then came the global financial crash, the impact of which we are still experiencing – with the ultimate irony that the prospect of a massive fine on Deutsche Bank is even being talked about as a last straw that might precipitate the next financial crisis! Now, while I can understand the despair of the parliamentary Labour party, I wonder whether the rightwing press that excoriates Corbyn and McDonnell are aware of the wider debate that is going on. We now have the International Monetary Fund and, less surprisingly, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, bemoaning the abysmal state of the post-crisis economy and crying out for governments to intervene to boost economic demand. It is now widely accepted that monetary policy has reached its limits, and may, via the effect on savers, be having a perverse impact on attempts to boost demand. Too many corporations are sitting on cash piles and not investing. The concentration of so much of the increment in national income in the hands of the top 5% means they themselves have plenty to spend but the sum total is not enough to boost world demand and ward off mounting fears of another recession. Corbyn and McDonnell call for increased government borrowing, at negligible rates of interest, to boost infrastructure. So do the most orthodox central banking institutions, such as the Bank for International Settlements, based in Basel. The reaction to their calls has been little short of hysterical in some places. They should not be excoriated for this. More to the point are the widespread concerns that for other reasons, not least their abysmal poll ratings, they are not electable. Anyway, they should be going for this government, which has lamely accepted the wish of 37% of the electorate to leave the EU (ie, although 52% of those who voted were for Out, only 37% of those eligible to vote were, God forgive them, Brexiters). Which brings us to the recent speech by George Osborne in Chicago. He said the British people had not voted for a “hard Brexit”. He was right. Only 37% voted for a hard Brexit. For what does leaving the EU mean other than a hard Brexit? And if you allow for all those under-18s who are keener on Europe than their grandparents, the proportion of population that wish to leave the EU must be closer to 25%. I bet that a fair proportion of the 37% did not appreciate the implications of what they were doing. The vultures are already descending, in the shape of foreign embassies in London approaching financial institutions and offering “helpful” advice about moving their operations elsewhere. And Nissan is just one of many multinationals considering the impact of Brexit on their future investment plans. How can a nation such as ours be so stupid? To coin a phrase, we need our country back. Our sovereign parliament must veto this absurd and self-destructive policy. 