Youth unemployment figures published this week have underlined the contrasting economic fortunes of two cities an hour’s drive apart, with Wolverhampton having one of the highest jobless rates for 16 to 24-year-olds in the UK, and Coventry one of the lowest. The Guardian visited the two cities to find how their paths have diverged and why young people appear to have such comparative success in finding a job in Coventry, while the story is so different in Wolverhampton. According to a study commissioned by accountants EY, 27% of young people in Wolverhampton are unemployed. This is despite a number of economic successes for the West Midlands city, including a Jaguar Land Rover engine plant and the establishment of several hi-tech businesses. But one expert suggested that the gap between Wolverhampton and Coventry may have been exaggerated. Prof Anne Green of the Institute for Employment Research at Warwick University said figures that break down unemployment into age groups are based on small sample sizes and should be treated carefully. “The small sample size can exaggerate the extent of the gap between one place and another,” she said. “But we do know that the average skill level in the Black Country is lower than the south-east of the area around Coventry.” Politicians in Wolverhampton are trying to distance the city from the idea of lower skills levels. From its beginnings as a market town heavily linked to the wool trade, Wolverhampton embraced the industrial revolution. For much of the past century, children followed their parents into heavy manufacturing industries and learned on the job. John Wood, the corporate services director of steelmaker Liberty, said companies are having to cope with an ageing workforce and a lack of skilled new entrants to replace retiring colleagues. “Companies round here are realising they’ve got to deal with a ticking timebomb, which is an ageing workforce,” he said, adding that the apprenticeship levy is another incentive to train people, because companies will receive a refund on it if they take on trainees.  “There is the need for people with higher skills and the extra cost of the apprenticeship levy, which will cost them money unless they train people. All three have created a change in the thinking among manufacturers,” he said. Schools in the Wolverhampton area have only recently succeeded in raising GCSE results above the national average. Wolverhampton University is credited with developing skills training alongside higher education. But for children from poorer backgrounds, the level of support remains ad hoc compared with Coventry. Business groups visit schools and offer mentoring, but the onus is on schools to connect with individual businesses. The Black Country chamber of commerce, which could play a major role, has been without a chief executive for six months.  Further education colleges are the backbone of training for many 16 to 18-year-olds and have faced severe cuts in recent years. Adrian Wright, the president of the chamber, said FE colleges were mostly rated outstanding by Ofsted, meaning the quality of people leaving them was good, but many young people were failing to bridge the gap into employment. “I think there is a bit of a disconnect between our manufacturers and those colleges,” he said. About 40% of chamber members are manufacturers and most are crying out for apprentices. “But there is more investment in technology than in training,” Wright said Throughout the New Labour era, business leaders say, the local council was a barrier to change, but it is now a key partner in bringing investment to the area. Cllr John Reynolds, who is responsible for skills and development at Wolverhampton council, said the authority has plans to regenerate the city centre, creating a canalside quarter with towpaths safe for cyclists next to renovated warehouses.  Wolverhampton has spent the past 30 years being hollowed out following an exodus of shops and employers to greenfield sites outside the city. His job is to entice a new breed, starting with a Debenhams store and a multiplex cinema to provide much-needed service sector jobs. Coventry has fared much better after a decade of investment that made it less dependent on manufacturing. This helps balance out the employment market, because manufacturing demands higher-skilled workers, who then become fewer in number as the business grows more sophisticated and workers are replaced by machines. The service sector has stepped into that gap. The rise in services employment in the city comes from an increase in hotels, shops and leisure facilities. It is the key factor in a youth unemployment rate that stands at 8.2%, according to EY.  Cllr Kevin Maton, the head of education and skills at Coventry city council, said: “We’ve always had an underdeveloped services sector. Very few hotels, restaurants and other businesses that young people traditionally went into and gave them their first taste of work.” The council, keen to bring young people into the city centre, has recently sold to Coventry University land next to the town hall, allowing it to develop a site next to the train station. This provides vital construction jobs, said Rachael Stewart, who works on skills and employment for the local enterprise partnership. Stewart has helped recreate the Connexions careers service scrapped by the last government, creating support for schools that now advise children on their career paths. Sally Lucas, the executive director of training at the Coventry and Warwickshire chamber of commerce, works with the LEP, the council, schools and colleges to coordinate funding, and seek out grants from EU and lottery funds. It means that the level of coordination between the agencies that deal with young people surpasses Wolverhampton in breadth and depth.  Maton said the arrival of Wasps in 2014 was another boon for the city. The rugby club had a long tradition of engagement with school children and forced Coventry City to “up its game” in response. “There are some who might criticise us as a Labour council for being too close to employers, but that is about engaging with local businesses. And we still have power in that relationship, so if we find they are using zero-hours contracts and paying less than the minimum wage, we are not standing on the sidelines, we can do something about it,” he said. 