PricewaterhouseCoopers has been fined £2.3m by the accountancy watchdog over its auditing of the subprime lender Cattles and its biggest division, Welcome Financial Services, in 2007. The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) also issued the accountancy firm with a severe reprimand. The fine was reduced from £3.5m after mitigation and a settlement discount. In addition, PwC has to pay £750,000 towards the FRC’s costs. The FRC said the £3.5m original fine would have been the largest ever. In early 2015, Deloitte was fined £3m over its dealings with the collapsed carmaker MG Rover after that was reduced from a £14m penalty following an appeal. Simon Bradburn, PwC’s then audit engagement partner, was fined £75,600, reduced from £120,000 as part of the settlement, and also received a severe reprimand. The penalties come nearly a year after Cattles settled a lawsuit with PwC that alleged the accountants acted negligently in its auditing of the Yorkshire firm during the financial crisis. Cattles, which almost went bankrupt over accounting irregularities, claimed that the loan book of Welcome was much weaker than stated in PwC’s audit. The lawsuit was brought on behalf of creditors to Cattles, which lent to people with poor credit histories and entered into a financial restructuring scheme in 2011. The FRC said that PwC and Bradburn had admitted their “conduct fell significantly short of the standards reasonably to be expected of a member firm and a member” in respect of the 2007 financial statements.  The watchdog said: “PwC had insufficient audit evidence as to the adequacy of the loan loss provision and had failed to identify the fact that the impairment policy was not adequately disclosed and that the disclosures in those financial statements were not in compliance” with accountancy rules. Gareth Rees QC, executive counsel to the FRC, said: “The substantial fines imposed in this case reflect the seriousness of the audit failings in relation to the critical area of impairment provisioning in a subprime lender and will send a strong signal to the audit community of the importance of upholding high standards of professional conduct in audit work.” He welcomed PwC’s and Bradburn’s “constructive approach, which has enabled us to reach this settlement. The admissions of misconduct have resulted in a significant saving in time and costs and the fines ultimately imposed have been reduced accordingly.” PwC said: “While the FRC has acknowledged that we had been deliberately misled by third parties, we recognise that certain aspects of this 2007 audit fell short of expected standards. Audit quality is of paramount importance to PwC and the FRC’s annual audit quality assessments have shown a trend of improvement in our work over several years.”  Accountancy firm receives record-breaking fine for ethical breach, with former director banned for three years 