A pick-up in sales at supermarket giant Tesco has been overshadowed by the £5.9bn hole that has opened up in its pension fund. Tesco said that since February its pension deficit had ballooned from £3.2bn to £5.9bn due to the collapse in bond yields after Britain voted to leave the European Union. Its finance director Alan Stewart said it did not have to increase its contributions to the scheme but pensions experts suggested the problem could hinder the resumption of dividend payments to investors. The grocer’s shares jumped nearly 10% after chief executive Dave Lewis told the City that sales at UK stores had risen 0.9% in the three months to the end of August – the retailer’s third quarter of growth in a row. “These results indicate a business moving out of crisis to one that’s showing real confidence in its recovery,” he said, pointing to like-for-like sales growth across the group. Pre-tax profits for the six months to the end of August were down 28% at £71m but underlying earnings, excluding one-off items, jumped by 60% to £596m. The retailer is expected to make full year profits of £1.2bn. The shares closed up 18.4p at 207.1p. With the business now “extremely stable” Lewis said it was time to “step it up”, setting out a three year plan to rebuild profits which collapsed to a £6.4bn annual loss in 2015.  He set a target that by 2020 it would earn between 3.5p and 4p of operating profit for every £1 customers spend. The group currently makes 2.2p in the £1. To get there, however, Lewis said the grocer would need to slash a further £1.5bn from its cost by making its stores and distribution network more efficient. Lewis has already made savings of £500m but he insisted the new programme was not about cutting jobs in stores, where the number of staff serving customers has actually increased by 12,000 over the past two years.  Instead, the former Unilever executive has axed thousands of head office and store management roles and while there would be some “trimming”, this time, he said it was “about changing the way we do business”. Tesco said about £550m of the savings would come from making its store operations efficient, looking at areas such as opening hours and re-stocking shelves during the day rather than at night. Surging pension deficits have been highlighted by other big British firms, including John Lewis, Primark owner ABF and the AA.  Tesco’s deficit calculation is based on an accounting measure but next year the scheme will undergo a triennial pension valuation, which Richard Farr, managing director at Lincoln Pensions, argues could lead to its trustees asking for more than the £270m per year they already receive to fund the scheme. “It is likely that just when Dave Lewis wants to recommence dividends that trustees will certainly want to increase their own demands,” said Farr. Stewart said it was too early to talk about reinstating payments to shareholders with the last dividend paid in the second half of its 2014-15 financial year.  Lewis joined Tesco two years ago and almost immediately was engulfed in the biggest crisis in the company’s history when a whistleblower alerted him to an accounting scandal. Tesco suspended four executives when it discovered its profits had been artificially inflated, and the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) launched an investigation into the company. To revive sales Lewis focused on lower prices, improving customer service and making sure its shelves are full. He also revamped its budget ranges with a new range of own-label “farm” brands to counter Aldi and Lidl.  The shake up has seen lapsed customers return to its stores with even its more than 200 out-of-town hypermarkets, which Lewis’s predecessor Philip Clarke stopped short of calling white elephants, enjoying better sales.  Shore Capital analyst Clive Black said some “understandable excitement” had been generated by Lewis’s new plan to boost profits but the company’s £18bn debt pile, which includes the pension deficit and £7.7bn of store lease commitments, was an issue: “That progress is being made at the operating level is undeniable and commendable ... but you cannot ignore the company’s level of indebtedness.”   