Every time I interview a Brexiteer, I come away more confused than I arrived. This week I thought I was going to meet the pub trade’s real life Al Murray, for the parallels between Tim Martin’s public image and the fictional Eurosceptic landlord appear disconcertingly close. In fact, on the train to JD Wetherspoon HQ in Watford I opened the Guardian to find a quiz inviting readers to guess which quotes to attribute to each publican. When I run the quiz past Martin later, even he gets two answers wrong. The founder of Wetherspoon’s first entered the debate about Europe in 2002, when he distributed 500,000 beer mats across his pub chain, urging Britain not to join the euro. Before this year’s referendum he printed up another half a million mats, encouraging his customers to back Brexit. One of Vote Leave’s few high-profile businessmen, the multi-millionaire was back in the headlines this week, attacking EU leaders for “hectoring” the UK. If Jean-Claude Juncker doesn’t stop “bullying” us, he warned, Wetherspoon pubs might stop stocking European wines and lagers and buy its drinks elsewhere. “Britons could BOYCOTT European booze if Juncker punishes UK, warns Wetherspoons boss,” whooped a Daily Express headline. But Martin’s vision of Brexit turns out to be very different to that of others on his side. During the referendum campaign, a diversity of reasons for leaving was one of the leave side’s great strengths; amid the chorus of different arguments there was something for almost everyone. Now that they have won, however, their incompatibility is becoming overwhelmingly clear. In many respects, Martin’s view of Europe is as unlike Nigel Farage’s – or Al Murray’s – as mine. We meet in his office, an unostentatious room cluttered with boxes of Moët champagne, which he gives to office staff when it’s their birthday. At 6ft 6in, well built and ruddy-faced, he looks more like a farmer than a multi-millionaire chairman, and now that he has tamed his silver mullet into a more conventional haircut, the most striking thing about him is his voice. Martin grew up in Northern Ireland and New Zealand, and the accent meanders between the two, via the West Country, interrupted by endless eruptions of booming laughter. I can’t remember meeting anyone who laughs so much, so I ask if he is enjoying his role as a political campaigner. “Well, it’s quite weird, actually,” he admits, “because it was unplanned.” In 2002, in the wake of the ERM debacle and with the prospect of Britain joining the euro, Martin made the “banal observation” that “every other currency in the world has got a government. The euro can’t work without a government. I kept waiting for a Harvard professor to come out of the woodwork and say, ‘I’ve never heard such ignorance in my life.’ But they never did. So I just kept repeating it. I became someone on the national news, repeating the same phrase.” He breaks into a cackle. “And in the end, the point was true.” Once Britain opted not to join the euro, Martin lost interest in Europe. “I never said a word.” Had we met even just a couple of years ago, would he even have described himself as fiercely Eurosceptic? “Not in the way that a lot of fiercely Eurosceptic people were. I think I was probably just starting to become aware of the lack of democracy at the heart of the EU, and formed the amateur philosophical theory that for the future of humanity – for prosperity and peace – you must have democracy. Because if you don’t have democracy,” and he starts to laugh again, “you always end up with a nutter in charge.” (Does the same apply to businesses? “Yes! Even more so, only the customers are the electorate.”) Martin wouldn’t even have been too unhappy for us to remain in the EU. “I just agreed with David Cameron that it needed fundamental reform.” The 61-year-old is of the firm, if increasingly heretical, opinion that Britain has benefited enormously from EU migration, “not just economically but socially and culturally”. His preferred Brexit model would continue to allow anyone from current EU member states to live and work here. “If you look around the world, successful economies and countries have had gradually rising populations, and that’s needed for the UK as well.” The only change he would make to the free movement of labour would be to exclude countries who join the EU in the future. How, then, did he feel when the leave campaign focused so heavily on immigration? He exhales uneasily, ums and ahs, and says: “Well, you’ll always get an element of xenophobia in any society, but I don’t think Britain is generally xenophobic. There was one poster I didn’t think should have been put there. But for me, I argued from the point of democracy.” Martin doesn’t even share most Brexiteers’ fury at the high court ruling requiring parliament’s consent to trigger article 50. “Well, it creates a bit more uncertainty,” he offers, “so I can’t exactly welcome it. But I’ll support the legal outcome, because I believe in the law, and I believe in parliament, and I believe in democracy.” The democratic deficit is Martin’s sole objection to the EU project. “The thing I cannot understand is that when I said I think democracy is crucial for the future of the world, I’d have thought people would pour out of the doors saying, ‘Yes! Tim is right!’ But people on the remain side just don’t seem to think like that. The emotion of people who’ve been to good universities, et cetera, is not that they owe everything to democracy, but that they owe everything to people like them, who are better able to run companies, the civil service, universities, societies in general.” The phrase “better able to run companies” catches my attention. Martin studied law at university, and qualified as a barrister, but then at 24 bought a pub in north London. There was more than a touch of the maverick, plucky little guy about his business model as he expanded: when brewers refused to sell him their tied-lease pubs, he bought up old banks and shops, licensed the converted premises and set about selling affordable food and drink to the unfashionable masses. Famously scruffy, he drives an old Volvo – “I don’t own a yacht” – and is pointedly unimpressed by the pretensions of professional boardroom culture. It makes me wonder if his Euroscepticism is really another expression of his emotional rebellion against the blue-chip elite. “No. I know what you’re driving at, but no.” It’s the remainers, he claims, who are motivated by emotion. “Someone from the Financial Times said I was a great amateur philosopher, which is an insult – and also probably true.” He hoots with laughter. “And I think modern people think because they don’t go to church they’re more sophisticated and don’t have a religion. But I think what the EU became was a quasi-religion for that sector of society. And universities are the modern day seminaries.” Although happy to be a philosopher, he is emphatically not a politician. The last time he voted in a general election was 1992; “I’m not proud of that fact. I just didn’t feel strongly enough.” The only other time he has ever voted was in the 80s, for Margaret Thatcher, because she was his local MP. He mispronounces Andrea Leadsom and Gisela Stuart’s names, and until recently Nigel Farage was the only Ukip politician he had even heard of. Were he American, he would vote for Hillary Clinton, and thinks Donald Trump is a “complete egocentric weirdo”, but adds that “I trust the American people to look into it in a bit more detail than me,” so will defer to their judgment next week. “I would never want to be a politician. I know my limitations, and I’m sure politics is more difficult than it looks.” Martin’s indignation this week about EU leaders’ hostility towards Britain did seem politically naive. How else did he imagine they would feel about us for leaving? “Well, I didn’t really know. It was impossible to know how they would react.” He was very cross with Juncker for telling EU business leaders to be “intransigent” in their dealings with British companies. “And after telling them to make sure the UK pays a price, he has to expect people from the UK who are fighting from the opposite economic position to make the opposite case!” Well, yes, quite. This outbreak of hostilities was precisely what the remainers had warned of. But leavers will be disappointed by his response when I ask about his boycott. “Oh dear!” he laughs, burying his head in his hands. “I can see I’m in trouble here already! I haven’t got a boycott. Absolutely not. I was just attempting to show that if European companies do what Juncker says and try to get heavy with us, inevitably we’d go elsewhere.” I don’t know what “get heavy” means. “Well, no one does!” he hoots. Martin has said the UK doesn’t need to sign a trade deal with the EU, because his pubs don’t sign deals with suppliers. He can’t think running the country is like running a pub, can he? “What I was saying is that you can’t go into negotiations with the EU insisting upon a particular outcome. If you say your pre-condition is that we have to have free trade, then in order to get that you have to accept what comes with that.” I suggest that I’ll be the EU, and he can be the UK, and he can show me how he would approach the negotiations. “OK, I would say: Decca, I think free trade will suit both our territories better.” I’ll say: fine, but in that case you have to accept free movement of labour. “I’ll say: look, politically, we can’t.” But this is non-negotiable, I’ll say. “Then I think that we have to, er – well, it’s up to you then, Decca, what you want to do. We’d like to trade with you. You want to trade with us. So what basis would you like to trade on? That’s what I would say.” I’m not sure this would resolve the impasse. Martin is banking on the EU’s aversion to tariffs to overcome its impulse to impose terms that deter other members from leaving – and he may be right. But this is a businessman’s assumption; to EU leaders, their political project’s survival may turn out to matter more. We move on to much firmer ground when we abandon Europe and talk about the pub trade. To its admirers, Wetherspoon’s is the saviour of the industry – while nearly 30 pubs go out of business every week, Martin’s chain keeps on growing. With nearly 1,000 pubs, it turns over £1.5bn a year, employs 35,000 staff, and makes Martin, who owns between a quarter and a third of its shares, worth roughly £250m. But a sign on his office wall reads “Only the paranoid survive” – “and I think there’s a lot of truth in that”, he says. Critics accuse the chain of corporate blandness, and he concedes that “there are instances where the design hasn’t been good enough, and it has given too much of an impression of impersonality or airport lounge. Pubs need individuality.” He spends three days a week visiting his pubs all over the country, and constantly worries about their future. “You lose a lot without pubs. They’re an important part of the social and cultural life of the country.” But whereas pubs must charge 20% VAT, supermarkets pay “virtually no VAT on food sales”, allowing them to subsidise drinks prices. “But most of the big companies say nothing about it. Because the people running them are taking too short-term an approach; they’re there for five years, they’re not looking 10 or 20 years down the line,” Martin says. He worries about millennials binge-drinking cheap supermarket spirits at home, instead of learning “social drinking” in pubs, which have “more or less become ghettos now for adults. Some sort of system that allowed 16-year-olds to have a beer or two in a pub would be good.” Martin might not share all of Al Murray’s views about Europe, but he is a big fan. He’s sure it was Murray who assured an anxious post-referendum public: “Crisps will remain at the current price,” and named as his most extravagant possession: “My wife, and even she’s a bit mean.” In both instances, it was actually him – which, of course, only makes him laugh again. “Should have got the crisps right.” 