The Federal Reserve held off on raising interest rates in July due in large part to possible long-term risks related to Britain’s vote to leave the European Union.  Minutes from the July meeting, which were released on Wednesday, mentioned Brexit 20 times. The economic uncertainty triggered by the referendum vote is one of a number of factors that have split the Fed’s board. The minutes show several Fed members believe the continuing strength of the US job market means a rate increase could soon be warranted, while others argued for caution and to keep rates at their historic lows. Analysis by the US central banks showed that the US reaction to the EU referendum was temporary. “Following the outcome of the 23 June referendum in the United Kingdom in which a majority indicated a preference to leave the European Union (EU), yields on US Treasury securities fell sharply, US equity prices declined, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar increased,” the Fed pointed out. “However, these changes generally reversed in subsequent weeks.”  The Fed also noted that following the vote, the early indicators pointed to a slowdown in economic growth in UK and that while the “negative sentiment surrounding the Brexit” had been alleviated, “several long-term global risks related to Brexit remained”. In the US, the Fed expected the labor market to continue to strengthen even as some members noted that a slowdown in job creation might lead to a delay in future interest rate rises, the July minutes show.  Earlier this week, New York Fed president William Dudley noted that an interest rate rise in September “is possible”.  “We’re edging closer towards the point in time where it will be appropriate, I think, to raise interest rates further,” Dudley said in an interview on the Fox Business Network. According to him, strong job growth and potential wage growth signal that the economy is in “OK shape”. Dudley is a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-setting part of the Fed.  In June, the Fed held off on raising the interest rates for the fourth time this year due to the disappointing May jobs report. However, job creation has been up in the two months since, with 292,000 jobs added in June and 255,000 jobs added in July. About 190,000 jobs had been added each month over the past three months, Dudley pointed out.  Despite the strong labor market, a Reuters poll of 95 economists found that they believed there was only a 25% chance of a rise in September. Most economists expect just one rate rise this year. And while the Fed will be meeting three more times before the end of 2016 – in September, October and December – the rise is expected to come in December, bringing the interest rate range to 0.50%-0.75%, up from 0.25%-0.50%. “The election is one of the reasons why they can’t go sooner,” Justin Lederer, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, told Reuters. “We don’t think the Fed will want to disrupt the election.” The Fed’s meeting on 13 and 14 December will mark one year since the Fed last raised rates. After raising rates for the first time in almost a decade, the US central bank was expected to raise rates four times this year. Since then, uncertainty about the Chinese economy, low oil prices and Brexit have all contributed to the Fed’s decision to hold off on another interest rate rise. 