Britain’s boardroom bosses have been warned they face a clampdown on bonuses and scrutiny over their pay, in the latest sign that Theresa May’s promise to reduce corporate excess is being heeded by City fund mangers. The warning was issued by Legal & General Investment Management, which has called for companies to publish the ratio between the chief executive’s pay and that of the median employee in a letter to major firms to warn them of its new approach to boardroom pay. LGIM, the fund management arm of insurer Legal & General, has told firms there should be a cap on directors’ bonuses, so that they are not bigger than two times salary. The fund manager, which has stakes in most companies in the FTSE 350, has written to them with its views on executive pay just as the prime minister raised the prospect of putting employees on company boards, and making shareholder votes on executive pay legally binding. L&G’s intervention also comes as MPs prepare to increase their scrutiny of corporate behaviour by launching an inquiry into boardroom pay and structure.  The Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) select committee, chaired by MP Iain Wright, will build on its work into the collapse of BHS and the working conditions at retailer Sports Direct with wider scrutiny of corporate Britain. Announcing the inquiry on Friday, Wright said: “Irresponsible business behaviour and poor corporate governance certainly act against the interests of workers, but they also act as a brake on long-term prosperity and profitability in companies. We need to look again at the laws that govern business and how they are enforced.” Even before the vote for Brexit, which led to May becoming prime minister, there had been a series of revolts over executive pay. When the annual general meeting season started in April, shareholders voted down pay deals at BP and medical equipment group Smith & Nephew. Other revolts followed.  The BIS committee intends to look at whether this is evidence that shareholders have all the tools they need to rein in pay. “While there has been some recent shareholder actions against these ever larger pay packages, can we have any confidence that the current framework for controlling pay is working? As a committee, we will want to look at whether executive pay should take account of companies’ long-term performance and whether the government should intervene further to control executive pay,” said Wright. LGIM is largely building upon the recommendations of a working group, which published its findings in July and in which L&G chief executive Nigel Wilson played a key role. That group rejected May’s ideas for a binding vote on pay deals and did not set out how much directors should be paid. LGIM does not set a level of pay either but told companies: “We would encourage the reduction of short-term annual bonus levels. Two hundred percent of salary should be reserved for the largest global companies.”  Annual bonuses are only part of directors’ pay as many also also receive long-term incentive (LTIPs) awards in the form of shares over three- or five-year periods. The working group in July set out an idea to use restricted shares instead of LTIPs and other bonuses. LGIM gives this a cautious reception and when these are used they should be fewer of them than through traditional LTIPs. “Award levels should be reduced by 50% or more of the normal long term incentive grant to take in to account certainty,” LGIM said. Sarah Wilson, chief executive of shareholder advisory body Manifest, said LGIM was addressing how much the chief executive is paid relative to the rest of the executive directors. Not all investors endorse the idea of pay ratios. Referring to the BIS committee investigation, Mike Fox, head of sustainable investments at Royal London Asset Management, said: “While we support the investigation we are concerned it could lead to support for a ‘pay ratio’ which we believe is a crude measure that risks tarring well governed firms with the same brush as those with a flagrant disregard for what is acceptable.” Data published by the High Pay Centre and Manifest last year showed that the ratio of chief executive pay in the FTSE 100 to their average employee was 150:1 in 2014. The High Pay Centre is setting up a “40 times” club, referring to a specific ratio of executive pay to the wider workforce, of which only a handful of FTSE 100 companies would be members. 