BT has taken a £145m hit after uncovering “inappropriate management behaviour” at its Italian division. The company, which said the non-cash charge would not affect full-year figures, appointed external advisers to assist with a full investigation into BT Italia. BT said its initial internal inquiry found “certain historical accounting errors” and it had “reassessed certain areas of management judgment”. The “errors” had not materially impacted its reported earnings over the previous two years, BT said, and appropriate action would be taken as the investigation progressed. The £145m charge was “our current best estimate of the financial impact based on our internal investigation. The writedown relates to balances that have built up over a number of years.” BT said while the weakening pound had affected the company’s financial performance, its long-term outlook remained unchanged despite the Brexit vote.  “While the future nature of Britain’s trading relationship with the EU and globally is currently uncertain, the board does not expect the result of the referendum to have a significant impact on our outlook … We continue to monitor the longer term impact of the UK’s decision to exit the EU.” BT released its second-quarter results on Thursday and said there had been a strong start to the Premier League season, comments that follow a series of reports suggesting football viewing on Sky and BT Sport was plummeting.  BT Sport said its average audience figures increased 1%, excluding its free showcase channel and digital channels, despite the competition from the Rio Olympics. “We are benefiting from our new Saturday early evening slot for Premier League matches, with better viewing figures.” It added 63,000 TV customers in the three months to the end of September, taking its total TV base to 1.7 million. Total revenues for the telecoms group grew 35% year-on-year to £6bn in the three months to the end of September. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of EE, which BT completed the £12.5bn acquisition of in January after an investigation by the competition regulator, revenues were up 1.1%. Pre-tax profits, also unadjusted, rose 5% year-on-year in the quarter to £671m. On an adjusted basis pre-tax profits rose 24% to £873m in the quarter. The company added 76,000 retail broadband customers in the quarter, 65% of the industry’s total new customers that quarter, taking its total base to 4.5 million. Of those, 49% are using fibre. On BT’s wrangle with Ofcom over the regulator’s push for Openreach to be overhauled, the chief executive of BT, Gavin Patterson, said: “Ofcom’s consultation on the digital communications review closed earlier this month. We’ve submitted our response and will continue to engage with Ofcom to reach the best outcome for the UK.” Earlier this year, BT said EU regulations stated that it could not be “forced” to break up with Openreach. BT’s rivals, including Virgin Media and Sky, also want the broadband network to become independent. Openreach’s revenues were flat at £1.27bn in the three months to the end of September with profits, defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, down 2% to £630m. “We remain of the view that our own proposals for significant governance change provide every benefit that Ofcom is seeking while avoiding extensive, disproportionate costs,” said BT. EE made revenues of £1.27bn in the quarter and profits of £282m. The telecoms firm added 280,000 pay monthly customers, taking the total to 16.4 million. BT Mobile’s total customer base is 30.2 million. Telefónica-owned O2 UK added 232,000 mobile customers in the three months to the end of September, 200,000 of whom took contracts, not pay as you go deals. 