IT group Redcentric has seen its shares plunge 66% after it discovered accounting irregularities and gave notice to its finance director. The company said the “misstated accounting balances” related to previous year’s figures and would mean a write-down in some historic profits. The discrepancy meant it would need to reduce its net assets by at least £10m and its debt would now be around £30m, compared to the £17m or so it suggested in September. It said: The company has served notice on its chief financial officer Tim Coleman and placed him on gardening leave with immediate effect. Mr Coleman resigned with immediate effect as a director of the company on 6 November. The board anticipates making an external interim appointmen of a replacement chief financial officer. Redcentric has begun a review of its current and historic balance sheets which will delay publication of its half year results which were due on 14 November. It will also need to recalculate its banking financial covenants “which will take some time to complete.” Chairman Chris Cole said: The board is absolutely focused on completing the internal review to resolve the situation in a timely manner and release the company’s interim financial statements at the earliest time...The indications are that these accounting issues relate to prior periods and that the current levels of new business sales by the company are as expected. The company’s shares are currently down 99p at 51p and analyst Will Wallis at its joint broker Numis said: This statement points to net debt being about £13-14m higher at the half year than we had previously anticipated. The accounting misstatements that have led to this situation appear to have taken place over multiple previous periods, but we have no further information on the impacts in any one year. By comparison, previously reported adjusted pretax proit for 2016 was £19.0m. If the cumulative profit restatement matches the mis-statement in net debt, and if 50% of the cumulative mis-statement took place in 2016, then the restatement to 2016 adjusted profits would be 35-40%. Note that this calculation is purely illustrative, and could differ very significantly from the eventual out-turn. The group also carries significant acquisition-related intangibles, which we presume could be subject to review. We have withdrawn our forecasts. The statement points to likely significant adjustments to previously announced profits. While the statement suggests that all issues relate to prior periods, it is very difficult given the likely scale of restatement to have any confidence in our previous forecasts for the current year and beyond. The statement notes a recalculation of banking financial covenants. We understand that the primary covenants are net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times, and a debt service covenant of 1.1 times (pre interest post capex cash flow compared to all debt service costs including interest, finance lease repayments and dividends). He concluded: We have withdrawn our recommendation and price target. With audited results (auditors PwC), including the level of net debt, not reliable, clearly there are very significant uncertainties.  