Worries about Deutsche Bank are currently outweighing the relief rally which followed the US presidential debate, with leading shares now deeper in the red. So investors are looking for safer stocks, and utility companies are fitting the bill. Severn Trent is up 20p at £24.83 with SSE 18p better at £15.46. And United Utilities has climbed 12p to 998p after the business issued a positive trading update. It said first half operating profits were expected to be marginally higher than the same period last year, with infrastructure renewal spending slightly lower but picking up in the second half. Ian Forrest, investment research analyst at The Share Centre, said: Although bid speculation has raised its head recently the main appeal for investors in United Utilities remains its defensive nature, healthy yield and aim of increasing its dividends in line with inflation through to at least 2020. In the volatile and uncertain markets post Brexit, and in a very low interest rate environment, those are powerful attractions for investors seeking income with lower risk. But overall the FTSE 100 is currently down 15.01 points at 6803.03. Banking shares remain under pressure on the concerns about Deutsche Bank, down another 3%, and its ability to pay a hefty fine threated by the US Department of Justice. Connor Campbell at Spreadex said: The continuation of Deutsche Bank’s decline seems to have spoilt the post-presidential debate relief, with the markets resuming a lesser version of yesterday’s fall.  The German bank is now down another 3%, and is threatening to drop under €10 for the first time in around 30 years. This has sparked another round of losses in the European banking sector, with Barclays, HSBC and Societe Generale all seeing notable declines. Royal Bank of Scotland actually surpassed Deutsche Bank’s morning drop, percentage-wise at least, with investors fearful that the same kind of fine could hit RBS when its settlement with the US Department of Justice is finally revealed.  Royal Bank of Scotland has fallen 7.5p to 170p while Standard Chartered is down 14.1p at 611.6p after allegations of impropriety at an Indonesican company its private equity arm had invested in. The bank said it had referred the matter to the appropriate authorities and conducted its own review.   