How has the economy reacted to the vote to leave the EU on 23 June? Each month we look at key indicators to see what effect the Brexit process has on growth, prosperity and trade in the UK Help fund our journalism by becoming a Guardian supporter. Katie Allen and Paul Scruton The pound had plunged after the referendum, then stabilised before falling again in October on fears the UK was heading for a “hard Brexit”. This month, the pound has been buoyed by some upbeat economic news, the diminishing prospects of more interest rate cuts and as investor focus shifted elsewhere after Donald Trump’s victory. Worries now centre on the eurozone, where a series of elections are due over the coming year. Compared with the night of June’s referendum, the pound is down 16% against the dollar and 10% against the euro. The FTSE 100 index of shares in big companies plunged the day after the referendum but quickly recovered and set a fresh record high in October. It is now 8% above its level on the night of the vote. There were big swings in November for the FTSE and other share indices around the world after Trump’s win left investors puzzling over whether he would be good or bad for global growth. The more domestically focused FTSE 250 mid-cap index has also recovered from its post-referendum drop but is only 2% above its level on 23 June. Experts predict the weaker pound will lift inflation by raising import costs. But the latest figures wrong-footed economists. They had been expecting inflation to quicken from 1% in September to 1.1% in October. Instead it dipped to 0.9% as dearer petrol was offset by downward effects from clothing prices and university fees. The Office for National Statistics said there was no clear evidence that price pressures on manufacturers had fed through to prices in shops. Britain’s trade deficit with the rest of the world widened unexpectedly in September, according to the most recent figures. There had been hopes of an export boost from the fall in the pound, which makes UK goods cheaper for foreign buyers. But exports dipped and imports rose, so the trade gap on goods widened to £12.7bn. Britain’s trade position looked better in the third quarter overall, narrowing from the previous quarter. Surveys from the manufacturing, construction and services sectors signal they grew again in October, continuing their recovery from a post-referendum slump. The Markit/CIPS purchasing managers’ indices (PMIs) are tracked for early clues on official GDP figures and suggest the economy will finish 2016 on a relatively strong note. October’s “all-sector” PMI reading pointed to quarterly GDP growth of around 0.4%. By comparison, the economy grew 0.7% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the third quarter that followed the Brexit vote. The gap between government spending and the amount it raised in taxes and other income was smaller than expected in October. The government had to borrow £4.8bn to balance the books, lower than economists’ forecasts of £6bn. But it looks like the government will overshoot its borrowing target for the full year, and its fiscal watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility, will use new forecasts alongside the autumn statement to show the deficit coming down more slowly than had been expected before the Brexit vote. Unemployment dropped to an 11-year low of 4.8% in three months following the referendum but other jobs market indicators showed signs of strain emerging. Employment growth slowed, more people turned to self-employment and the number receiving unemployment benefit rose by almost 10,000 in October. Total pay growth confounded forecasts for a small rise and instead held at 2.3%. Forecasters warn weak pay growth and rising inflation will soon squeeze household budgets. Shoppers continued to defy predictions and shrug off the Brexit vote. Some surveys show consumer confidence has waned but there was little evidence of that in the latest retail sales figures. A rush to buy winter clothes and buoyant Halloween trade helped sales volumes grow an annual 7.4% in October, the fastest growth for 14 years. On the month, sales rose 1.9%, well ahead of forecasts for a 0.4% rise. Analysts had predicted a drop in house prices following the Brexit vote and there were early signs the result had unsettled potential homebuyers. But more recent surveys suggest prices are still edging up on growing demand and tight supply. In the latest snapshot from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors a net balance of 23% of surveyors saw house prices increase rather than decrease, a six-month high. The pound’s weakness may not be tangible in most shop prices yet but pressures higher up the pipeline are building. Manufacturers are paying more for imports and they are starting to pass some of that on to customers. Manufacturers saw the price of materials and fuels rise 12.2% in the year to October, the biggest increase for five years. Output prices, or what they charge to customers, were up 2.1%, the biggest rise for more than four years. The dashboard analyses how key parts of the economy have performed since April, during the run-up to the referendum, and compares key monthly economic indicators with how they were expected to come in, based on the consensus forecasts in polling of economists by news service Reuters. 