Shares in Deutsche Bank have gyrated wildly before closing sharply higher amid speculation the embattled German lender was on the brink of a deal with the US authorities over a decade-old mis-selling scandal that would be less damaging to its finances. On a day of big swings on the market, shares in Germany’s biggest bank initially slumped as much as 9% on Friday to leave the stock below the key €10 (£8.65) level. But by the end of day on the Frankfurt exchange, they were 6% higher at €11.57. They have lost 50% of their value this year. The rally continued on Wall Street after Europe closed with the bank’s US-listed shares rising 14%. The stock was buoyed by an attempt by chief executive John Cryan to calm nerves with a memo sent to the bank’s 100,000 staff and hopes of a deal with the US Department of Justice over the mis-selling of mortgage bonds between 2005 and 2007. An Agence France-Presse report suggested the bank might be doing a deal with the DoJ to pay just over a third of the $14bn (£10.8bn) penalty that was originally suggested by the DoJ. Cryan said there were “forces in the market” trying to destabilise the bank after its shares plunged to 30-year lows amid fears it would not be able to afford to pay $14bn.  The AFP report said that Cryan was on the brink of agreeing a penalty of $5.4bn with the DoJ. Cryan – a Briton who has been at the helm of Deutsche for 15 months – fired off his memo to staff after a Bloomberg report rattled nerves by revealing 10 hedge funds had taken some business away from the bank. “Our bank has become subject to speculation. Ongoing rumours are causing significant swings in our stock price. It is our task now to prevent distorted perception from further interrupting our daily business. Trust is the foundation of banking. Some forces in the markets are currently trying to damage this trust,” said Cryan. “The rumors that are out there that Deutsche Bank is going to get a better deal ... I think is adding some positive effect into the market,” said Jonathan Corpina, senior managing partner for Meridian Equity Partners in New York. “I think people were fearful and concerned about what the outcome of this is going to be.”  Deutsche’s plight has prompted fears that global markets are facing turmoil of the kind triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers eight years ago this month. While Lehman’s boss also blamed speculators, Cryan argued Deutsche was strong while policymakers also insisted any comparison is unfair. Deutsche’s gyrations initially prompted a knock-on effect in the UK, with shares in Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland – both of which face a similar investigation by the DoJ – falling sharply before regaining their losses. The FTSE 100 also clawed back lost ground. After slumping100 points it ended 20 points lower. Germany’s Dax index ended 1% higher. But in an indication of the anxiety in the market the price of bonds which Deutsche can use to bolster its financial strength in times of crisis – known as CoCos – plunged to new lows.  From the moment the $14bn penalty was demanded Cryan has insisted the bank would not pay that amount. Reports this week – strenuously denied – suggested the bank had approached the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, for help and sparked a fresh round of concern about its financial strength. Cryan insisted there was “no basis for this speculation” as he set out four factors to support Deutsche’s “strong fundamentals”. He said its restructuring was on track – including the sale of UK business Abbey Life this week; that the bank had reduced its exposure to risky clients; that it had made €1bn of first-half profits; and it had €215bn of easy-to-sell assets in times of crisis. “You will hear back from me soon. Please keep working as you have been doing so far,” he told staff, 7,000 of whom work in London. With Deutsche’s shares down 50% this year, Cryan has been under pressure from some analysts to accelerate his restructuring programme to cope with the low interest rate environment. Cryan is expected to attend the International Monetary Fund meeting next week. Analysts at Credit Suisse said the share price reaction was overdone as the penalty would eventually be reduced from $14bn. “We have modelled €4bn for this issue,” they said, and calculated that Deutsche could afford to pay €9bn “before breaching minimum capital requirements, a comfortable cushion in our view”. But even once the penalty is agreed, the bank will still face investor angst. Analysts said Deutsche might still need more capital, identifying a €7bn shortfall to Cryan’s capital targets for 2018. The bank has set aside €5.5bn for litigation but not all of this is for the current situation. Deutsche is one of a number of European banks facing a possible penalty for mis-selling of US residential mortgage-backed securities, including Barclays and RBS. The Financial Times reported on Friday that the DoJ was aiming to wrap any settlement with Deutsche into one with Barclays and Swiss bank Credit Suisse and have it completed before the US presidential election on 8 November. Bailed-out RBS, which could take a hit of as much as £9bn, said earlier this week it was not in settlement talks. 