Economic data is viewed these days through the prism of the vote for Brexit and its implications for the chancellor’s autumn statement in November. Philip Hammond should be delighted with the news from the consumer inflation front: the headline rate was stuck at 0.6% in August. It’s as if the post-referendum fall in the value of sterling, which in theory should have caused a few inflationary breezes by now, never happened. That analysis requires heavy qualification, of course. Look at the data from the manufacturing sector to see the pummelled pound in action. After a long period of deflation, the prices of goods bought and sold by producers rose for a second month in a row. At some point, wholesalers and retailers will attempt to shift those pressures on to consumers. They won’t succeed entirely, but nobody seriously thinks inflation will stay at 0.6% for much longer. A pick-up lies around the next corner. But look at life from Hammond’s point of view. An instant post-Brexit surge in inflation would have been seriously bad news. It could have tempted him into cutting VAT as a short-term crowd-pleaser to bring down prices in shops and prop up consumer spending. Lower VAT, one suspects, remains an option but the case is weak and becoming weaker. Incomes are growing at roughly 2.5% and even the City’s most hawkish pundits don’t see inflation reaching 2% until the middle of next year. So best to keep a cut in VAT – which, remember, would cost the Treasury £14bn a year if the reduction was from 20% to 17.5% – in reserve for stormier days. Hammond should use the period of relative calm – in growth and inflation – to boost investment, especially public spending on infrastructure. Whether it’s housing, transport (but, please, not the dreaded HS2 white elephant) or energy generation, the case for addressing the UK’s under-spending by international standards is compelling. Payback on long-term projects can be slow. But, with a following wind, Hammond could reasonably expect to be looking at GDP growth of 2% and inflation at, say, 3% in 2018. We’d settle for that. You might assume a pension of €15,000-a-month would be quite enough to ensure you never have to work for Goldman Sachs. José Manuel Barroso, former president of the European commission, feels differently. He’s taken the job of chairing Goldman’s subsidiary in London and has caused a stink back in euro-land. Strip him of his pension, demands an online petition originating in Brussels. The appointment is “morally unacceptable,” declares French president François Hollande, who may have one eye on his lowly popularity rating. A storm of protest was inevitable, of course. Brussels is a lobbyist’s paradise and the sight of the commission’s former chief switching sides to take Goldman’s shilling inspires little confidence in the transparency of the system. Yet Barroso, as he cries “discrimination”, makes a reasonable point. There are rules to cover what former commissioners can do after leaving office and he appears to have followed them to the letter. He waited the required 18 months to take the gig. And, since Brussels has not declared Goldman to be a uniquely evil institution, how is he supposed to have breached the requirement to act with “integrity and discretion” out of office? Goldman may have helped the Greek government to massage its debts to get into the euro (the tale is contested), but the bank is regulated to operate in the internal market. Jean-Claude Juncker, Barroso’s successor, has tried to quell the row by saying Barroso will be denied the usual red carpet treatment for former presidents if he turns up in Brussels on Goldman business. That seems a fair response, even if Juncker may be making policy on the hoof. But it’s hard to understand on what grounds the commission’s “ad hoc ethical committee” could go further. If Goldman is an unsuitable retirement home for former bureaucrats addicted to the limelight, explain why Deutsche Bank, say, would get a thumbs-up. This affair carries a strong anti-American and anti-London current. Uber’s squeals of discrimination get no sympathy, however. The US taxi-hailing app firm thinks London mayor Sadiq Khan’s plan to offer limited protection to black cabs “will cost drivers who use Uber hundreds of pounds and thousands may lose their livelihoods as a result”. If Uber thinks Khan’s modest measures are really so severe, there’s a simple remedy. Give its drivers a financial helping-hand to cover the costs of extra insurance and language lessons. Uber is valued at $60bn (£45bn); it could afford to be generous and recognise a few obligations to raise standards for customers. 