Stock markets are drifting as the US finally gets to vote in the presidential election, with investors pausing for breath after Monday’s surge on the prospects of a Hillary Clinton victory. But Imperial Brands, the maker of JPS and Gauloise cigarettes and Rizla papers, has dropped 2.5% to £37.07 as news of new investment overshadowed in-line full year profits. The company said it planned to spend £300m in 2017 on “selected quality growth opportunities”, supported by moves to cut annual costs by £300m by 2020. It said: To further drive delivery of our strategic priorities and underpin revenue growth over the medium term, we will invest an additional £300m, which net of investment returns will have a £200m impact in 2017. This will be partly offset by £90m of cost optimisation savings resulting in a 4% net impact on 2017 constant currency earnings. Its 2016 results showed operating profit rising from £1.9bn to £2.2bn but after financing costs profit before tax fell from £1.7bn to £669m. It hiked its dividend by 10%. Sales volumes were boosted by its recent US acquisitions, which were up 4.2% but there were declines in Iraq and Syria. Jefferies analyst Owen Bennett said: While not set to grow earnings at the same level as peers, it needs to be judged on different parameters, in our view, with too much focus on share trends not doing the name justice. We believe that actions the company has taken has positioned it well to deliver mid-single digit earnings over the medium to long-term (and they committed to this in today’s release). While bears will likely take the additional investment as a sign of weakness we believe the action should be applauded, taking advantage of supportive foreign exchange, and giving them a greater opportunity to improve momentum of growth brands. The medium-term outlook and expected 2017 earnings per share growth of over 10% (even with additional investment) is not appropriately reflected in the valuation, in our view, trading on 13.4 times net twelve month consensus PE, over 20% discount to the global space (we also think Imperial could be a take-out target in the next 18 months). Overall the FTSE 100 has added 10.08 points to 6816.98. Primark-owner Associated British Foods and Marks & Spencer are heading in different directions following their latest updates. ABF has added 136p to £26.25 as it reported a 3% rise in full year operating profits and forecast higher earnings for the current year as the weak pound boosted overseas earnings, making up for the impact of rising import prices on Primark. Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said:  Markets [have reacted] very positively to better than expected full year growth (sales, profits, selling space), helping shares extend an October bounce to levels last seen in late September. A global bond rally reducing financing costs coupled with lower tax and helpful foreign exchange moves are helping sugar margins (already up on better global sugar prices), bringing focus back to the ‘ingredients/agriculture’ segment to prove that the ABF story can still be something other than discount fashion and Primark. The latter’s margins are still likely to suffer as a result of a weak pound/dollar rate, but markets are clearly glad that the overall negative effects to date (and forecast) are no more than the company had previously guided to. But Marks has dropped 5.6p to 343.4p after it reported a 19% fall in profits and said it was shutting 80 stores around the world. Lower down the market Punch Taverns has put on 2.4% to 115p as it said changes to pub regulations were having a negative effect on letting activity in the first half of the year, but its expectations for longer term growth were unchanged. In a buy note Stifel said the results were in line with expectations, adding: We continue to believe that the shares are an overlooked and materially undervalued special situation.  