For Rolls-Royce, the stakes are high.  One of Britain’s most celebrated companies is facing potential prosecution over allegations it spent years hiring middlemen who paid bribes all around the world.  For the company, prosecution could mean tremendous reputational damage. For any individuals implicated, it could mean jail. It is a humiliating prospect for a £13bn company widely regarded as one of the jewels of British business. Rolls-Royce is considered so essential to the UK’s economic wellbeing that the government retains a so-called “golden share” that allows it to veto decisions it perceives to threaten the national interest.  Ministers have met with the company’s representatives more than 200 times since May 2010, according to an analysis by the Campaign Against Arms Trade. It also bears a proud history. Founded more than a century ago with ambitions to create the finest motorcars in the world, Rolls-Royce later supplied the engines for the single-seater Supermarine Spitfire, which repelled the Luftwaffe during the darkest days of the Battle of Britain. Following the second world war, the company began supplying equipment to aerospace, energy and marine industries all over the world. The Rolls-Royce car has been manufactured by a different company for years. So how could a company with such a stellar history find itself in such a precarious position? The modern Rolls-Royce seeks to land big contracts in highly competitive industrial arenas. Billions of pounds in profit are at stake, with many companies seeking the same contracts. Corruption is part and parcel of doing business in many of the countries in which Rolls-Royce operates, and with so much riding on each and every contract firms can come under enormous pressure to secure an advantage. At the heart of the allegations against Rolls-Royce is the suggestion that the company may have secured multimillion-dollar contracts in foreign jurisdictions by using agents who paid bribes. Rolls-Royce acknowledges it hired agents – otherwise known as commercial advisers, intermediaries or middlemen – to help sell its products.  It is not illegal to hire them. These agents often market themselves to multinationals as an essential part of doing business, purporting to have exclusive access to key decision-makers or unique insights into how a bid for a contract should be structured. However, middlemen can also provide a convenient channel by which illicit cash can change hands at arm’s-length. Rolls-Royce has declined to comment in detail on the corruption allegations since they first emerged four years ago. In its annual report in 2014, the multinational revealed that it had “dramatically” cut the number of intermediaries through which it did business around the world, a tacit acceptance that such practices were either unnecessary or inappropriate. As the Serious Fraud Office inquiry into Rolls-Royce is about to enter its fifth year, dozens of investigators continue to examine the evidence against the company.  A fresh leak of documents from a firm of agents, Unaoil, to investigative journalists at Australia’s Fairfax Media only adds to the complexity. Unaoil represented Rolls-Royce in at least five countries, according to those documents. As such, any decision about whether or not to prosecute Rolls-Royce and its staff or executives is unlikely to be made before 2017, according to sources familiar with the investigation. Sue Hawley, policy director at the monitoring group Corruption Watch, said: “This decision will be a key test of the UK’s ability, and willingness, to bring large and politically sensitive companies to book. If Rolls-Royce are found to have engaged in wrongdoing, they must also be barred from public procurement contracts for an appropriate length of time.” The British government decisively failed the last such test. An SFO investigation into alleged bribery in Saudi Arabia by Britain’s biggest arms manufacturer BAE was halted by Tony Blair’s government in 2006.  Though said to be motivated by fear that the Saudis would withhold counter-terrorism intelligence should the investigation proceed, few anti-corruption specialists saw the decision as the UK’s finest moment. So the Rolls-Royce inquiry is important for the SFO too. Theresa May was widely reported to view the agency as an unsuccessful anachronism while home secretary, and taken with the idea that its fraud and bribery functions might be folded into her new National Crime Agency. However, anti-corruption campaigners oppose such a move, and the agency may have earned a reprieve after this year securing the convictions of bankers who manipulated the Libor rates. The agency also appears to have become more proactive, establishing a new intelligence unit that follows up reports from journalists or NGOs rather than waiting for tip-offs to present themselves. Even if the SFO were to conclude it possessed sufficient evidence to prosecute Rolls-Royce, it could opt for a course of action that would inflict less collateral damage to the many entirely innocent employees and suppliers that depend on Rolls-Royce for their livelihoods. A deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) would, instead of a full criminal prosecution of the company, entail the presentation of an agreed statement of facts to a court, laying out the details of the company’s conduct, as well as a large fine. Such an approach may be considered suitable for Rolls-Royce given the company’s parlous financial health: it sold its energy business to Siemens in May 2014, and issued its fifth profit warning (paywall) in 20 months in September this year.  However, DPAs are controversial. After HSBC was awarded one, along with a record $1.9bn fine, in 2012 after it admitted laundering money for Mexican drug cartels, the New York Times damned the settlement as “a dark day for the rule of law” and an effective admission that the company was too big to prosecute. As a less harsh outcome to a prosecution, such settlements are obviously attractive to companies that find themselves in the SFO’s crosshairs. But to be seen to treat a defendant with kid gloves could prompt the SFO’s critics to accuse it of being soft on crime, and would raise questions around fairness were any of the company’s agents to be subject to full prosecution. 