Flicking through the chunky Argos catalogue gives a snapshot of how much British high street retailers rely on imports – and are vulnerable to the slumping pound. Beats headphones at £89.95 come via California; a slim PlayStation 4 is made in China; while curved Samsung TVs are manufactured in South Korea. It is these imports – from clothes manufactured in south-east Asia to consumer electronics – that are expected to go up in price in the new year on the back of fluctuations in the post-EU referendum pound. The very public row between Tesco and Unilever last week over the wholesale cost of household staples such as Marmite is the first public illustration of the sensitivity of everyday items to movements in sterling, which closed the week at just under $1.22. Consumers have been now been warned that spikes in prices on high-street goods could come after the Christmas sales, as retailers’ hedges against currency fluctuations – a form of insurance policy against movements in the pound – come to an end. “We are really going to see things unwinding, and effects on prices from early 2017,” says Patrick O’Brien, analyst at consultancy Verdict Retail. Since the Brexit vote at the end of June, sterling has suffered heavy losses and last week had its worst four-day performance since the referendum. The knock-on effect is that clothes made in Asia and bought in dollars are likely to rise in price as the pound has fallen in value by 17.5%. Milk from abroad is also expected to rise along with wine, the vast majority of which is imported. Although many retailers hedge against currency fluctuations, these safeguards typically only last between six and 12 months. Jonathan De Mello, head of retail consultancy Harper Dennis Hobbs, says he expects price rises in all areas and that some retailers, especially in the clothing sector, will not survive the ensuing turmoil. “The majority of hedges will last beyond Christmas because most retailers had hedges in place. I think [the first quarter] or the end of [the first quarter] are going to be when they are going to end,” he says. “I think we are going to see a lot of price rises. There has always been deflation in the clothing markets so there is going to be a lot of promotional activity [and] price rises, which will massively reduce margin. As a result, I can see some retailers struggling – and not surviving, to be honest. I think Q1 2017 is going to be a really hard time.” It emerged last week that Tesco had run short on household staples following a row with Unilever after the supermarket refused to pay 10% across-the-board price rises. A deal was struck on Thursday afternoon after the shares of both companies dropped when news of the clash emerged. Analysts quickly pointed to Brexit as the trigger for the dispute. O’Brien says it is likely there have been clashes between retailers and their suppliers already but that the Tesco-Unilever confrontation was the first to become public. He predicts that while currency devaluations could affect the cost of goods by up to 20%, retailers would not be able to pass on such losses to the consumer. “There is no way that retailers will be able to, or will attempt to, pass on that sort of price rise,” he says. “It is going to differ in different sectors. It could be as much as 3% to 5% but it is difficult to gauge at the moment. “The burden is going to be shared. The balance of who is going to take the most share is debatable at this point but the retailers are really stuck in the middle and they are going to get hit the worst, I think, in terms of their margins.” Judging by these predictions, it seems possible that the TVs, consoles and headphones that feature prominently on the Argos website may soon be going up in cost. However, the retailer declines to comment, saying it is “too early” to discuss the consequences of Brexit. One suggested salvation for the pound is the election of Donald Trump as US president, which would lead to a decline in the value of the dollar. Judging by the polls, however, that appears as likely as 100% of the British population deciding that Marmite is their favourite taste. 