For most Americans the fallout of the 2008 financial crisis was all too obvious. The economy imploded, jobs disappeared, house prices collapsed. But coming to grips with the reason it was happening – the run on mortgage-backed securities, collateralized debt obligations (AKA, CDOs), credit default swaps, synthetic derivatives, tranches – was not so easy.  The mumbo jumbo mattered – and that’s what made it all the more infuriating. It was a banking crisis that only the insiders could decode.  Even on the occasions (both then and since) when the bank CEOs have been dragged in front of Congress for what have become almost ritual attempts to humiliate and shame them, most of those efforts have been failures. Why? Partly because of the way the bankers dodged and dived, of course. And partly because the issues involved just didn’t make it easy for anyone to catch a dodging, weaving banker, advised by a canny, high-priced lawyer.  It just wasn’t that easy for some of the non-specialists on Senate and House committees to be as effective as they might have liked in pillorying the finance industry when the subject was the way in which traders had rigged the Libor rate (the interbank borrowing rate against which the interest rates on most loans are benchmarked), say, or the precise way in which a hedge fund participated in selecting investments in a derivative sold to a pension fund client. It’s even hard to explain how some of that stuff affected ordinary Americans (even though it did – ultimately, and sometimes indirectly.)   So let’s be grateful that the banks have finally provided us with a scandal that we can understand, and to the regulators, for (belatedly) addressing a real problem that too many Americans grapple with daily.  The Wells Fargo mess is the poster child for it all. Last month, the bank – one of the oldest in the country, with a tradition dating back to the Pony Express – disclosed that it would fork over $185m in penalties to regulators after an audit discovered that employees opened as many as 2m deposit and credit accounts in customers’ names but without their consent.  Testifying before Congress, John Stumpf, the bank’s CEO and chairman, made much of the breach of trust on the part of more than 5,000 employees who opened the accounts, in an attempt to meeting sales quotas, either earning bonuses or simply holding on to their jobs. While initially he backed away from suggestions that he himself might have been held accountable, last week he discovered he will share some of their pain: independent directors announced they will implement salary and bonus clawbacks, and Stumpf’s own compensation will be on hold while the directors investigate. But Wells isn’t the only venerable Wall Street name to run afoul of regulators in recent days. Morgan Stanley, too, appears to have been putting pressure on its brokers to engage in “dishonest and unethical conduct”, according to the top securities regulator of Massachusetts, pushing them to cross-sell products.  Cross-selling is at the heart of both the Wells Fargo and the Morgan Stanley scandals, and unlike CDOs and credit default swaps, it’s something that any bank customer can understand all too easily. If you’ve ever walked into a bank – or talked to a bank representative on the phone – and had him suggest that you might want to consider opening a new account or that a different product might be just perfect for your needs, when you really just called to reset your pin or check your balance, well, you’ve encountered cross-selling.  There’s nothing wrong with it as a business strategy. In fact, it’s eminently logical, and can even be good for customers, to make them aware of products or services that might be out there and fit their needs. But it only works well when it’s done carefully and on a customized basis.   As retail banking in the United States has struggled in the current low interest rate environment, with too few creditworthy customers eager to increase their borrowing and help banks boost their profits, institutions like Wells Fargo increasingly viewed selling more products as the best way to increase earnings. If they couldn’t make more on the same number of products, well, they’d just increase the number of products. And so they put in place the kind of bizarrely high targets that prompted those “rogue” employees to begin opening fake accounts. Even after they were aware of what was happening, those targets remained in place; even when Stumpf first testified to Congress, the targets were still (theoretically, at least) what Wells Fargo bankers had to hit each day/week/month.  You don’t need a Jenga game, or Anthony Bourdain cooking a fish stew, Margot Robbie languishing in a bubble bath, or any other tortured metaphor, to explain the concept and just what is wrong with this picture.   Similarly, Morgan Stanley allegedly crossed the lines by running cross-selling contests for brokers in five offices in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. The brokers could win as much as $5,000 for convincing customers to take out as many as 30 loans against securities portfolios. Although the firm’s own rules banned the contests, the compliance office didn’t figure out what was going on for a year, until the end of 2014. Even then, the contests didn’t stop until April 2015, according to the complaint filed by William Galvin, secretary of the Commonwealth. Meanwhile, the contests generated $24m in new loans for Morgan Stanley, Galvin said.   A spokesman for Morgan Stanley has said the complaint is without merit and that the bank plans to defend itself vigorously. The loans were only open after discussing the product with each client, he added.  That distinguishes it from Wells Fargo, whose clients had no idea that accounts were being opened in their name. On the other hand, did Morgan Stanley’s clients know that their brokers were competing – and being paid – to open these new loan accounts? That the reason they were being offered the product might have as much or more to do with the broker’s own financial wellbeing as with their own real needs? (Did they really need a new loan? Or the risk associated with taking out a loan against a securities portfolio when the market is near what seems likely to be its peak?) I suspect not.  Thomas Curry, the US comptroller of the currency, has warned other banks to review their own cross-selling practices and has told Congress that his own staff will be evaluating what the largest banks are up to in this respect. It’s about time. Hopefully, he’ll report back with the answers. At least, when he does, we’ll all understand what he’s talking about. At the end of the day, it’s really not much different than the high-pressure telephone sales guy who simply will not hang up or go away. Only because it’s your banker who’s putting you on the spot, you’re a particularly vulnerable kind of captive audience who can’t just hang up.  