Unilever has resolved its dispute with Tesco and says well-known brands including Marmite and Ben & Jerry’s will be back on the shelves. It emerged on Wednesday that Tesco was running short of stock of a range of household brands from Marmite to Comfort fabric conditioner after a row with its major supplier. The consumer brands company halted deliveries to Tesco after the supermarket refused to stump up across-the-board price rises of about 10% for its range of brands. However, after both companies’ share prices fell on Thursday and Unilever was criticised for blaming the attempt to increase prices on the fall in the value of the pound, a deal was reached late in the afternoon.  The food and household goods supplier said: “Unilever is pleased to confirm that the supply situation with Tesco in the UK and Ireland has now been successfully resolved.  “We have been working together closely to reach this resolution and ensure our much-loved brands are once again fully available. For all those that missed us, thanks for all the love.” A spokesperson for Tesco said: “We always put our customers first and we are pleased this has been resolved to our satisfaction.”  The statement appears to suggest the two sides reached a compromise, although neither Tesco nor Unilever would confirm any details of their talks. The quick resolution of the row is good news for Tesco’s boss, Dave Lewis, who previously held a senior role at Unilever. Tesco shares slid 3% and Unilever shares dropped 3.4% as City investors were alarmed at pictures of empty shelves appearing on social media. But analysts said the public spat had worked out well for the supermarket, as tabloid newspapers widely portrayed Tesco as a people’s champion on low prices.  “When was the last time you saw articles about Tesco as the shoppers’ champion?” said Dave McCarthy, a food retail analyst at HSBC. Bruno Monteyne, an analyst at Bernstein Research, said the publicity around the spat was probably helpful to both Tesco and Unilever as it would help explain probable price rises to shoppers. “Tesco recognises that Unilever’s costs have gone up – there is no doubt about it – but they wanted to argue a little bit. The government doesn’t really want to publicise the negative impact of Brexit. Now Tesco can say ‘look how we fought for you’,” he said. Despite the swift resolution of the Marmite standoff, UK consumers have been told to brace themselves for price rises. Other negotiations may be less public, but it’s understood that a number of suppliers have approached supermarkets asking for cost increases to be covered. Monteyne predicts that food prices will rise by about 3% over time as the impact of the falling value of the pound is reflected on supermarket shelves. Pinar Hosafci, a senior food analyst at Euromonitor International, said: “Brexit has been a trigger that started this and it is likely that other companies, which are reporting in euros, including the likes of Nestlé and Ferrero, will follow suit. This move could be more detrimental to Tesco than Unilever, which owns a number of power brands that are either leading or at best ranking in the second place.” The British Retail Consortium said shops would be doing their best to hold down prices for customers, but that the impact of the falling pound would eventually work its way through to shelf prices. Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the BRC, said: “Retailers are firmly on the side of consumers in negotiating with suppliers and improving efficiencies in the supply chain to control the inflationary pressure that is building through the devaluation of the pound. “However, years of falling shop prices and higher costs have left limited scope for retailers to continue absorbing this pressure, and everyone in the supply chain will need to play their part in maintaining low prices for consumers.” Unilever is one of Britain’s biggest suppliers of branded food and household goods and claims its products are found in 98% of UK households. Its brands also include Dove, Hellmann’s, Magnum, Persil, Vaseline and PG Tips. The company had blamed the pound’s fall against the euro and the dollar since the Brexit vote, which pushes up the cost of imports, for the 10% price rise demand. However, this attracted criticism as most of its products are made in the UK. Earlier on Thursday Graeme Pitkethly, Unilever’s chief financial officer, said price increases to offset rising costs were a normal part of doing business. “We are taking price increases in the UK. That is a normal devaluation-led cycle,” he said. The big supermarkets are likely to fight particularly hard to prevent price rises as they are battling to stop consumers taking their trade to discounters Aldi and Lidl, which sell more own-brand goods. Downing Street declined to comment on how retailers and suppliers should respond to the fall in sterling. A spokesman for Theresa May said: “It is a decision for companies how they market and sell their products … It is a commercial decision.” 