Changes to pensions brought in since 2010 could cost the public purse about £5bn annually by 2034-35 despite providing a small benefit in the medium term, the government’s spending watchdog has found. The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) found that changes to the way pensions and savings are taxed have made private pensions less attractive than other forms of savings to many workers – particularly those on high wages. A paper published by the OBR on Tuesday examined a series of changes to taxation for private pensions and savings, along with freedoms given to workers to access their retirement nest eggs from the age of 55, that were introduced by former chancellor George Osborne. Other changes include lowering the amount workers can put into a pension each year without incurring tax to £40,000, with a £1m lifetime cap. At the same time, the maximum amount that can be put into a tax-free individual savings account (Isa) has been raised significantly to £20,000 a year. The OBR said the government had made several “significant changes” to the way private pensions and savings were taxed, as well as bringing in a variety of government top-ups on certain savings products. “It has generally shifted incentives in a way that makes pensions saving less attractive – particularly for higher earners – and non-pension savings more attractive, often in ways that can most readily be taken up by the same higher earners,” the report said. The OBR found that the “small net gain” to the public finances from Osborne’s changes over the medium-term becomes a net cost in the long term. The gains from the reforms would peak at £2.3bn in 2018-19 before turning negative from 2021-22, rising in cash terms to hit £5bn by 2034-35. As a share of GDP – a better way to determine whether that sum is affordable – the OBR expects the net cost to rise to just over 0.1% of GDP by that time. It warns that the “seemingly small cost would add 3.7% of GDP to public sector net debt” over a 50-year period. However, the report also points out that the relatively slow pace at which the changes would affect the public finances would let future governments tweak policy if necessary. A Treasury spokeswoman said: “The government wants to ensure people can save in a way that works for them, for both the short and the long term. That’s why we continue to support pension saving and savers through new initiatives such as the personal savings allowance, the lifetime Isa and Help to Save.” The findings were released on the same day that the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) and the Pensions Regulator called for increased powers to prevent companies from dodging their obligations to savers in the light of the BHS scandal. The call came in evidence to a parliamentary inquiry about the oversight of pension schemes, kicked off after BHS collapsed with a near £600m hole in the funding of its pensions scheme. The plight of the Tata Steel pension, the future of which was thrown into doubt when its Indian owner decided to sell up, and of the Bernard Matthews pension pot, which is expected to receive just 1p in the pound under a controversial rescue package for the poultry processor, have also highlighted the limitations of pensions regulation. The PFF, which acts as a lifeboat for failing retirement schemes, said the Pensions Regulator should be given the power to fine employers who seek to dump pension scheme obligations. The regulator itself said it should be given enhanced investigatory powers, under which it could compel parties to give evidence with civil penalties for refusal to divulge information and the ability to “seize and sift” relevant documents. It said companies should be compelled to justify that their actions are in the interests of the pension fund, shifting the burden of proof that behaviour is prudent and appropriate to the companies rather than the watchdog. Such a move would make it easier for the regulator to step in. “In our view, the subjectivity in legislation, specifically around what ‘prudence’ or ‘appropriate’ mean, can be a barrier to the regulator achieving acceptable outcomes from our interventions,” the watchdog wrote in evidence to the work and pensions select committee. It also wants mandatory clearance for certain corporate activities that might weaken the company, such as a sale, dividend payments, change of control, share buy-backs and loans. That idea has already been promoted by Barbara Judge, chair of the Institute of Directors. At present, companies involved in takeovers are able to approach the Pensions Regulator about their plans on a voluntary basis. Judge said that in future the regulator should investigate sales of companies with turnovers of at least £200m and where the pension fund covers more than 2,000 employees. The regulator noted that mandatory clearance should be handled with care: “This has the potential to be a significant burden on employers and impact on corporate activity. Therefore we believe any such a proposal would require further discussion and engagement with stakeholders and should only be taken forward in a targeted and proportionate way. Clear criteria as to when approval should be sought would be necessary.” Frank Field, chair of the committee, said the latest evidence gave a “useful steer” on potential reform. He has previously said: “We cannot have firms changing ownership at the price of pensions being dumped with the Pension Protection Fund – such dumping involves promises being broken, and the cuts in benefit that result.” 