As the pound hits a 31-year low, the question is, how do you feel? Poorer is the answer. Not because the new polymer fiver in your pocket is a bit smaller. It isn’t. The reason you are poorer is directly related to the pound’s purchasing power. Foreign holidays will be more expensive, and imported goods will go up in price. There could even be an exodus of foreign workers, at least those who send money home, now their remittances are worth about 13% less against the dollar since the Brexit vote and almost 20% less than a year ago. The pound was worth $1.55 last October. Now it is heading towards $1.27. A year ago, the pound bought €1.34. Today, the euro is a good deal stronger and a pound will buy a little less than €1.12. But there is more than one silver lining to this story. UK exports are cheaper, boosting the UK’s manufacturing industry. And the goods in our shops will cost less to foreign tourists, which is why it seems like most of Europe, and a large slice of the US, Japan and China, have been camped on London’s Oxford Street for the past couple of months. The Chinese are in the middle of their “golden week” national holiday. Nearly 600 million Chinese tourists are expected to use the time to travel, many abroad. Britain is due to be among several places to see a 60% year-on-year increase in Chinese tourists. Not all of them will spend their money in London. The lure of the Beatles museum has put Liverpool on the list of destinations, although the attraction of discounted luxury brands in Oxfordshire’s Bicester Village is likely to be a bigger draw. Representatives of Westfield, which owns two shopping centres in London, said its retailers were reporting that Chinese tourists were bulk-buying designer items to make the most of the weak pound. Currency experts say the trend is likely to continue after Theresa May appeared to favour a hard Brexit in her Tory conference speech. As such, the prime minister’s message – which chimed with a warning from the chancellor, Philip Hammond, of two years of turbulence – was an open invitation to those preparing for next year’s golden week to make Britain their destination of choice.     