Leading shares are edging lower on the day but still look like posting a more than 1% gain for the month. Banks are among the main gainers, boosted by a number of positive economic signals from the UK despite the Brexit vote, the latest being consumer confidence figures. So Barclays is 4.1p better at 173.25p while Lloyds Banking Group has been lifted 0.82p to 59.68p. HSBC, 10.7p higher at 568.2p, has also been helped by Deutsche Bank analysts raising their target price from 514p to 525p, albeit with a hold rating. The analysts believe the bank may benefit from being broken up, saying the costs of running a global business appear to outweigh the benefits. They said: The announcement of a $2.5bn share buyback at HSBC’s interim results surprised market consensus that had been factoring in the prospect of a dividend cut. In this report we lay out a “Capital Map” for the HSBC Group that shows clearly where the group allocates capital geographically, what the returns generated on that capital are & what the cash dividend paying capability is of each operating company up to the group. This we believe not only helps shed greater light on the sustainability of group dividend but illuminates the areas where the group still has large sums of capital allocated inefficiently. We believe our “Capital map” exercise also sheds greater light on the cost of “being HSBC”. Our analysis identifies two clear costs: 1) capital trapped in subsidiaries making sub-cost of equity returns but viewed as essential to generating group-wide synergies (e.g. GBM in the US); 2) the cost of group centre (we estimate this alone is around 2-3% drag on group return on equity). At present we believe there is little compelling evidence that the benefits of running a global HSBC are outweighing these costs. Whilst this remains the case it is hard to see HSBC’s shares out-perform peers with cleaner and less complex business models.  The estimated S$4.5bn annual bill for [the holding company] that we estimate in this report plus the capital trapped making sub-par returns in subsidiaries to generate the “network effect” raises more fundamental questions for HSBC. Unless this bill comes down meaningfully in the coming years, or “network” related revenues increase, it remains a considerable drag on group returns, and thus valuation.  It may not be the right moment for HSBC to consider a wholesale breakup of the group into 3-4 separate companies – some Hold Co / central costs would undoubtedly trickle down into the separate business. Indeed there may never be a perfect time, given the risks and frictional costs involved. However, we struggle to think of a time in recent history when the case for a breakup of HSBC has been stronger. Ironically a report in a German newspaper that Deutsche Bank was considering a merger with rival Commerzbank has also helped lift the banking sector.  Housebuilders are also higher after Nationwide said house prices rose in August. Berkeley Group, likely to be ejected from the FTSE 100 at today’s reshuffle in favour of miner Polymetal International, is 81p better at £26.76 and Persimmon has put on 7p to £18.40. Overall the FTSE 100 is down 10.43 points at 6810.36, with mining groups pushing the index lower as the strength of the dollar continues to weigh on commodity prices. Fresnillo has fallen 52p to £16.38 and Anglo American is down 215p at £71.45. Elsewhere equipment rental group HSS has slumped 5p to 80p despite a 13.5% rise in half year revenues, as analysts worried about lower operating margins. Investment group Toscafund wants rival Speedy Hire to merge with HSS. Peel Hunt said: [The] outlook remains cautious and we reduce our December 2016 profit before tax from £13.0m to £9m (cons £11m) to give earnings per share of 4.6p from 6.7p. We assume progress remains challenged in 2017 and reduce our December 2017 profit before tax from £21.8m to £12.0m to give earnings per share of 6.2p from 11.0p. Despite clear strategic progress, these material downgrades (after a poor 2015) are likely to leave investors slightly nervous.  