Britain’s factories saw a strong rebound in output and new orders in August, according to a survey that suggested manufacturers quickly shrugged off the shock of June’s vote to leave the EU. A closely watched measure of factory activity swung to a 10-month high in August from a 41-month low recorded in July. But there were signs a weaker pound was stoking inflation, as it raised the cost of imported materials for UK factories and they passed those higher costs on to customers. The Markit/Cips UK Manufacturing PMI (pdf) rose to 53.3 in August from 48.3 in July. That was the joint greatest month-to-month jump in the survey’s nearly 25-year history. The last time there was a five-point jump was between February 2009 and March 2009 in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. The latest reading was well above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction and far ahead of the consensus forecast for a reading of 49.0, in a Reuters poll of economists. The pound strengthened against the US dollar and hit a one-month high against the euro after the stronger than expected report. City analysts have already been adjusting their outlooks for a post-referendum slump on the back of indicators showing household spending has held up well. These latest figures are likely to prompt more economists to shift to a brighter outlook for the UK economy over coming months. Rob Dobson, senior economist at the manufacturing report’s compilers IHS Markit, said: “The August PMI data indicate a solid rebound in the performance of the UK manufacturing sector from the steep downturn that followed the EU referendum.  “Companies reported that work that had been postponed during July had now been restarted, as manufacturers and their clients started to regain a sense of returning to business as usual. The domestic market showed a marked recovery, especially for consumer products, while the recent depreciation of sterling drove higher inflows of new business from the US, Europe, Scandinavia, the Middle East and Asia.” The survey of purchasing managers at more than 600 industrial companies showed: “Inflation is raising its ugly head,” said Dobson, commenting on the effects of the pound falling against other currencies, which makes UK imports more expensive but exports more competitive. “It is too early to say whether the rebounds in growth and inflation will be sustained, but the upturn in August suggests that the weaker exchange rate and recent policy action have helped to avert a downturn,” he added. The rebound for manufacturers follows action by the Bank of England to restore confidence among businesses and households after the 23 June referendum.  The Bank cut interest rates to a new record low of 0.25% and expanded its programme of electronic money creation, known as quantitative easing, on 4 August. That followed a warning from Bank governor Mark Carney before the referendum that a vote to leave could tip the UK into recession. Economists have warned that despite signs of a rebound this summer, the decision to leave the EU could be felt more acutely once negotiations to leave the bloc begin in earnest.  Lee Hopley, chief economist at the EEF manufacturers’ organisation, said the news “provides a lot of relief that manufacturing activity is still on the up” but that August’s performance was unlikely to be sustained. “Manufacturers, unnerved in July by the referendum outcome, appear to have their mojo back in August,” she said. “But the heightened volatility in the indicator in the last couple of months still raises questions about whether sentiment has overshot somewhat and, rather than this pace of expansion being sustained, some moderation is likely in the coming months.” Economists are awaiting the purchasing managers’ index report for the smaller construction sector on Friday and, more importantly, for the much larger services sector on Monday. 