Three former Tesco directors have been accused of acting dishonestly for personal gain as they appeared in court to answer charges of fraud and false accounting in relation to a £263m-plus scandal at the supermarket chain. Carl Rogberg, the former finance director of Tesco UK, Christopher Bush, the former managing director of Tesco UK, and John Scouler, the supermarket group’s former commercial director for food, were all charged with one count of fraud by abuse of position and one count of false accounting. The charges read out at Westminster magistrates court alleged that as senior employees at the supermarket they had abused their seniority for personal gain.  The trio were also accused of dishonestly falsifying Tesco’s digital accounting records and its draft interim accounts by the “inputting of and/or reliance upon commercial income figures which gave a false account of the financial position of Tesco”. The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) said the alleged activity took place between February and September 2014. The three men could face up to 10 years in jail if found guilty of fraud by abuse of position and seven years for false accounting. They all plead not guilty to both charges.  The three former colleagues sat side by side in the dock.. The men spoke only to confirm their name, age and address during the half-hour hearing.  Judge Vanessa Baraitser said the case was being referred to Southwark crown court, with the former supermarket executives told they would next have to appear on 20 October.  The SFO investigation into Tesco is ongoing and it is still possible that further individuals could face action. However, it is understood that the former chief executive Philip Clarke, who was questioned under caution by the SFO, will not be charged. When the SFO’s decision to charge the executives was announced this month Tesco said it continued to cooperate with the investigation: “The last two years have seen an extensive programme of change at Tesco, but given this is an ongoing legal matter, we are unable to provide any further comment at this time,” it said at the time. The SFO launched a criminal investigation into accounting practices at Tesco in October 2014 after the company admitted it had overstated profits by £263m because it had incorrectly booked payments from suppliers, relating to issues such as marketing costs or reaching sales targets. The scandal came to light after a whistleblower alerted the company’s new chief executive, Dave Lewis, who took over in September 2014. A team of forensic accountants from Deloitte then established that Tesco had artificially inflated an estimate of first-half profits given to the City in August 2014. They also found similar practices had been in place in previous reporting periods. In April 2015, Tesco said it had found a further £60m in mis-statements from previous years, mostly as a result of an audit of its Irish operations. Rogberg and Scouler left Tesco in November 2014. The two men, and Bush, were members of the so-called Cheshunt Eight – named after the location of Tesco’s Hertfordshire head office – who were suspended when the profits overstatement first came to light. 