The World Bank and the United Nations have highlighted the impact of conflicts on civilians in a report showing that the number of displaced people around the globe is equivalent to the UK’s population of 65 million. A study launched jointly by the Bank and the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) shows that the root of the problem are 10 conflicts responsible for the majority of forced displacement every year for the past quarter of a century. The report said the issue was emerging as an important development challenge that threatened a backlash against refugees.  “Extreme poverty is now increasingly concentrated among vulnerable groups, including people who had to flee in the face of conflict and violence, and their presence affects development prospects in the communities that are hosting them,” the report said. “Large movements of people are also fuelling xenophobic reactions, even in high-income countries, and this could threaten the consensus that is underpinning global economic growth.” The study singled out Afghanistan, Burundi, the Caucasus, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and the former Yugoslavia as responsible for a crisis that affects 1% of the world’s population. Despite the controversy over refugees and often strong opposition to them in developed countries, the Bank and the UN said that neighbouring developing countries shouldered almost all of the responsibility for coping with the impact of the violent struggles. The report said that 89% of refugees and 99% of internally displaced people were hosted by around 15 developing countries, a pattern unchanged since 1991. At the end of 2015, Syria’s neighbours – Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey – hosted 27% of all refugees worldwide; Iran and Pakistan, Afghanistan’s neighbours, hosted 16%; and Ethiopia and Kenya, Somalia and South Sudan’s neighbours, hosted 7%. “Forced displacement denies development opportunities to millions, creating a major obstacle to our efforts to end extreme poverty by 2030,” said the World Bank’s president, Jim Yong Kim. “We’re committed to working with our partners to help the displaced overcome their ordeal and seize economic opportunities, while ensuring that host communities can also benefit and continue to pursue their own development.”  The report also highlighted that refugees account for less than 1% of the population in most host countries. In Turkey, Chad, Djibouti and South Sudan, they account for between 2% and 3.5%. Only in Lebanon and Jordan does the proportion exceed 4%, and by a large margin – 18% in Lebanon and 9% in Jordan. The new report said it was important that development organisations intervene to help countries affected by displacement. It identified three phases of support: helping host nations prepare before large numbers of people arrived; providing support to tackle long-standing issues such as health and education; and helping to create jobs. It added that unlike economic migrants moving to places where there were jobs, the forcibly displaced were fleeing conflict and violence, often suffering from a loss of assets, lack of legal rights and a lack of opportunity. “They need dedicated support to overcome these vulnerabilities and regain confidence in their future … so they can work, send their children to school and have access to services,” the report said. Kim has made tackling the causes of the refugee crisis a key priority for his tenure at the World Bank, and is expected to build on this report with initiatives to boost the economic prospects of displaced people. 