Drivers for Uber’s food delivery service, UberEats, are planning to picket London restaurants as part of a protest over pay. Dozens of scooter and bicycle couriers descended on an Uber office in Bermondsey on Friday to demonstrate against dwindling pay deals, which they say have left some at risk of earning less than the minimum wage. During a noisy but peaceful protest, drivers chanted “Uber, shame on you” and called on the company to pay the London living wage of a guaranteed £9.40 per hour, plus costs. The dispute is the latest to hit the “gig economy”, where people in need of cash sign up for occasional jobs but do not receive guaranteed hours or other benefits of full-time employment.  Rival delivery service Deliveroo was recently forced to abandon plans to impose new contracts on workers after a protest by its own couriers. Uber refused to meet a delegation of drivers, saying it would only speak to them individually – an offer that protest organiser Imran Siddiqui said amounted to “divide and rule” tactics. Siddiqui, who claims he has been blocked from working for UberEats since organising the demonstration, said riders were now planning to take their campaign on the road, touring London restaurants and disrupting their business. Another worker, who asked to be referred to as Manou, said: “If the restaurants are not making money with UberEats, they’ll use Deliveroo instead. Uber will have less drivers and customers if they don’t listen to us.” Mohammed Ali, 21, said: “We just want what’s fair and what’s right. We’ve worked our arses off to get this company to where it is now, but we’re just tools to them.” Drivers said they were offered generous rates of up to £20 an hour when UberEats launched. But pay has been slashed since then, which some say has left them earning below the national living wage of £7.20 an hour for over-25s. UberEats drivers are paid a base fare of £3.30 per delivery, plus £1 per mile between the restaurant and the drop location, minus a 25% fee taken by the company. They also get an added “trip reward” of £4 per delivery in peak times and £3 off-peak. Uber said this amounted to a minimum of £13 per hour, assuming the driver makes two deliveries an hour. “We’re committed to being the best option for couriers in London,” said Alex Czarnecki, general manager of UberEats London. “Unlike other companies, we don’t set shifts, minimum hours or delivery zones – couriers can simply log in or out when and where they choose.” He said couriers were earning “on average more than the London living wage”. But pay records passed to the Guardian suggest they are at risk of earning less than the minimum wage. One courier’s records show he earned just £41.78 for seven hours and 19 minutes of work, equating to £5.72 an hour. All drivers are self-employed, which means they do not receive holiday or sick pay, or any hourly wage while they wait for orders. The protest follows reports that Uber lost nearly $1.3bn in the first half of 2016. It blamed the loss partly on subsidies it pays to drivers. 