I’ve lost count of the times I’ve been asked why a US-centric company like Allied Minds has staked its future to listing on the London Stock Exchange, rather than Nasdaq or the NYSE. Why do I, as CEO of a Boston-based company which looks to commercialise the most exciting discoveries spinning out of leading American universities and government institutions shuttle across the Atlantic to tell our story to British and other European investors? What do we get out of being a FTSE250 company when we could trade on Nasdaq, the market so many regard as the natural venue for the biggest beasts of disruptive technology? For Allied Minds, the answer is that we chose London because it is largely UK investors who understand our model.  Indeed the case for our London listing in June 2014 was overwhelming because our biggest shareholders, such as Woodford Investment Management and Invesco Perpetual, were already UK based. Typically, there’s a very different mindset in the US where venture investors only really start to become interested after the startup is created and is well down the track to selling its products or services. By contrast, Allied Minds, and to some extent our UK-focused peers such as IP Group and Imperial Innovations, are involved in identifying the most promising opportunities at inception, at the eureka moment in the laboratory of academic and government research institutions. In our case, once we have identified a prospect, we invest and set up the business as a majority owned subsidiary company.  The halo effect of this growing sector has not been lost on the London Stock Exchange as it steps up efforts to win technology IPOs in competition with global rivals. Yet the LSE has yet to showcase London’s success in the IP commercialisation field which perhaps represents one of its greatest strengths in reinforcing the UK market as a world leader in disruptive technology. Given the ferocity of competition across exchanges for high growth listings, it must be wholly in the interests of the LSE to build its lead in this sector.  And beyond the LSE, it falls to all of us with an interest in this London success story to do more to explain the bigger picture behind IP commercialisation. For this is a gateway to bring to market the most exciting research breakthroughs across high technology and life sciences. At Allied Minds, we single out technologies which will disrupt existing large and growing markets and business models. It’s a gruelling process, sifting through thousands of prospects annually from our relationships with more than 160 top American universities, the Department of Defense and other US government agencies. This has led to the formation of several key subsidiaries capable of transforming their target markets, whether they are combating cancer or blindness, bringing the shared economy model to mobile phone spectrum, or pioneering a new form of digital memory. Any of these may have the potential to disrupt the status quo of multibillion-dollar industries. And we’re making strides to move to commercialisation by partnering up with some of the biggest and most successful players in their particular sector, names such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Google, Intel and GE Ventures. To me, that’s a powerful validation of the potential of this business model. And it’s is a model which continues to build in the London market. At the LSE, we’re seeing a virtuous circle where the faster the exchange attracts new listings in this sector, the more attractive it becomes to potential issuers.  We’re not the only US-based IP commercialisation company listed on the LSE. We’ve been joined by PureTech Health. More will follow. Conversely, UK-based peers such as IP Group, which have hitherto concentrated on British research, are now looking to forge links with US academia and research institutes. No surprise, perhaps, when you consider the scale of the US R&D spend relative to the UK. Given the breadth and depth of our relationships across US academia and federal institutions, we have no problem with competition. It’s a healthy evolution of our sector.  We’re very happy with our London listing. Yet markets ceaselessly evolve. There are signs that knowledgeable US and Asian investors are becoming more comfortable with this investment model.  The UK is a leader here. And let’s hope the LSE keeps at the top of this game.  You can’t overestimate the importance of these disruptive technologies being readied for commercialisation.  Not just for investors.  But in terms of improving lives and beating diseases, for the good of society too. Chris Silva is chief executive of Allied Minds 