It’s a bit cheeky of Pete Redfern to bill his report into the decline of home ownership as “independent”. He is chief executive of Taylor Wimpey, one of the country’s biggest housebuilders, so he doesn’t arrive on the scene free of commercial interests. Never mind. He was asked by the Labour party to lead the study and can’t be blamed for accepting the gig. More to the point, his review isn’t obviously stuffed with measures that would benefit builders of private homes. It does not, for example, recommend that the government should throw yet more subsidies at homebuyers in the manner of George Osborne, the chancellor who did so much to improve housebuilders’ profits and share prices. Instead, the Redfern review says help-to-buy schemes are inflationary and should be restricted to first-time buyers seeking lower-priced homes. Quite right. Osborne’s scattergun approach was wasteful. Nor is Redfern fixated with private homes. “A fair housing market also needs both a healthy private rented sector and a supportive social housing sector,” says the report. It’s hard to disagree. For the past 30 years, governments’ obsession with home ownership has deprived local authorities of the funds to build affordable properties for rent. The first step towards sanity must be support for all types of tenure.  It cannot be said, however, that the report offers fresh insight into why home ownership fell 6.2 percentage points between 2002 and 2014. The chief finding is exactly as you would expect: fewer young people could afford to buy. House prices rose rapidly before the banking crisis; then credit constraints kicked in; and a constant driver was the decline in incomes of those aged 28 to 40 relative to older people.  Redfern does have one novel suggestion, however: set up an independent housing commission, modelled on the new Infrastructure Commission, to provide long-term thinking on housing. This idea may feel like an intellectual cop-out but, at the core, there is a good point. Boosting the supply of new houses only makes a difference if higher volumes are sustained over the very long term, like a couple of decades. Since governments tend to be obsessed by short-term sticking plasters, an outside adviser-cum-enforcer might stand a better chance of success. It’s Labour’s report but Theresa May, also in search of a new housing policy, could consider pinching the commission idea. The explosion from Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou hasn’t been heard yet, but it may only be a matter of time. EasyJet, in the face of a 28% fall in annual profits and a 40% decline in the share price in the past 18 months, is stepping up its expansion. Capacity will be increased by 9% this year. The airline’s founder, but merely 34% shareholder with his family these days, tends to hate any plan that carries the risk of flying with lots of empty seats. He may not be impressed. The case for the defence, however, is strong. Post-Brexit Brits will still want to take holidays in the Med, even if they know that eurozone-land will be pricier. Overall, the European short-haul market is expected to grow by 3.5% next year. Expanding at 9% may nevertheless appear rash but many of easyJet’s competitors will do well just to stand still. So best to take advantage of the weaknesses of the likes of Monarch, Air Berlin and Air France-KLM. Adding capacity in Luton, where the airport is expanding anyway, and Venice, flight capital of a prosperous corner of northern Italy, doesn’t look wildly aggressive. But, note, the benefits will only be felt in time. It may be several years before easyJet enjoys a vintage year like 2015 when pre-tax profits were £686m. The latest year, at £495m, looks a better short-term yardstick; revenues per seat, down 6.4%, will not bounce back quickly, and nor (one suspects) will the pound. The consolation for shareholders ought to be the dividend. Sir Stelios fought a long and successful campaign to force easyJet to be more generous. Now, in a harsher trading climate for all airlines, he can enjoy the fruits of a policy that mechanically sets payouts at 50% of post-tax earnings. For a long-term holder like him, that’s not so bad. “Any company that gives stuff away is not a company, it is a charity.” So says Vittorio Colao, chief executive of Vodafone, who is miffed that India’s richest man is offering telecoms services for free as a promotional stunt. The result is €6.3bn (£5.5bn) writedown in the value of Vodafone’s local operation in India and a reminder of the perils of expanding boldly in emerging markets. But it hardly explains why Vodafone’s share price has fallen from 235p in August to 202p on Tuesday. The core European operation is finally looking perkier and forecasts for overall top-line profits are intact at €16bn-ish. Yes, debt is enormous but free cashflow covers a dividend that yields 6.2% in sterling terms. Maybe investors are just bored of waiting for a takeover bid that hasn’t arrived, and maybe never will. 