Deliveroo’s top director nearly doubled his pay last year before the company trimmed pay for thousands of delivery riders. The London-based company’s highest-paid director, thought to be founder William Shu, was paid a salary of £102,135 in the year to December 2015 compared with £53,333 in the previous year according to accounts filed at Companies House on Friday. Shu has a large stake in the business which, after a fund raising in August, now has a value approaching $1bn. The jump in Shu’s pay comes despite a massive widening of losses at Deliveroo to £18.1m, up from £1.4m a year before as the group invested in expansion in Ireland, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Hong Kong and the US. The company also handed out share options worth nearly £500,000 to employees – not including Deliveroo’s couriers, who are all self-employed. Deliveroo riders in some parts of London have sought union recognition as they try and seek better pay and conditions. The bid follows successful protests by riders in the capital who objected to the trial of a new pay structure which would have moved them onto payments per delivery from an hourly rate. As self-employed contractors, Deliveroo couriers are not entitled to the rights available to workers, including sick pay and the national living wage. The firm’s contract even tells those who sign up to make deliveries that they cannot test this status at the employment tribunal – although lawyers have dismissed this as unenforceable. The accounts for parent company Roofoods Ltd filed in London give only limited information and do not represent the full picture of the group and its subsidiaries around the world.  A Deliveroo spokesperson said: “At Deliveroo our aim is to create the best food delivery experience in the world. In 2015, we invested significantly to help us achieve this. We launched in 10 new countries, drove further expansion in both new and existing markets and continued to develop and invest in improving our offering to customers.  “It is common for ambitious startups to prioritise growth at this stage in their development, and our investments in growth are in line with our long-term strategy.” 