The government has faced calls to take bolder action to reform corporate Britain after it launched proposals it said were intended to hold business to account following a series of scandals and rows over executive pay. Unions criticised the government for backtracking on installing workers representatives on boards and opposition MPs questioned whether enough safeguards were being put in place to avoid a rerun of the debacle at the collapsed department store BHS. The green paper – open for discussion for three months – was launched after Theresa May pledged to reform big business during her campaign to become Conservative leader. Greg Clark, the business secretary, said the publication of the green paper was intended to kickstart a debate.  “Ordinary working people who work hard for their living deserve to have confidence that businesses act responsibly and fairly,” he told MPs in the Commons on Tuesday. “This government is unequivocally and unashamedly pro-business but we hold business to a high standard in doing so.” Clark said the green paper asked whether shareholders should be given a binding vote on executive pay, how employees could be heard in the boardroom and whether private companies should be subjected to some of the rules faced by companies listed on the stock market.  The document provided a number of options on each area – including the binding vote, which it suggested could be only on part of a directors’ pay packet or when there had been significant protests about pay in the past. Iain Wright, the Labour MP who chairs the business, energy and industrial strategy committee, which is running its own investigation into the topic, said: “Tentatively setting out a range of options in a green paper suggests a government whose resolve may have weakened on getting to grips with corporate governance.” Frances O’Grady, the TUC general secretary, said the proposals were disappointing and that they would not do enough to “shake up corporate Britain”. Clark said workers’ voices could be represented through non-executive directors. The consultation is taking place against the backdrop of the average pay of a chief executive of a FTSE 100 company rising to £5.5m, from £1m in 1998, outpacing wage growth outside the boardroom.  Pay “has grown much faster over the last two decades than pay generally and at times is not in line with corporate performance”, said Clark as he pinned the blame on Labour. The business secretary said the concerns about corporate behaviour related to “a very small number of businesses, which have undermined the reputation of British business generally”. But the shadow business secretary, Clive Lewis, questioned whether the ideas would stop another BHS – a privately owned company which left a £721m pension deficit – or Sports Direct, a stock market company criticised for its employment practices. “To force private companies to abide by the corporate governance code will do little unless that code is tightened. BHS may have been a private company, but Sports Direct isn’t, and we all know what has gone on there,” said Lewis. The green paper asks whether companies should publish their pay ratio – the gap between the chief executive and the wider workforce – but also cautions that the information could be misconstrued. In 2015 chief executives received 128 times the average pay of their staff, the document said. It also included proposals, first raised by the fund manager Hermes, which could require companies to set out the maximum amount a chief executive could earn. The paper asked if the current system of paying bosses though long-term incentive plans – share awards that pay out in three years – should be thrown out. It also questions if pay deals should be based over three rather five years.  Business leaders supported the tone of the document. Simon Walker, the director general of the Institute of Directors, said he was pleased the government was “kicking off a wide debate on how to ensure UK corporate governance is up to scratch”. Chris Cummings, the chief executive of the Investment Association, described the paper as “open and consultative”. It is the latest attempt by politicians to react to a public outcry over pay. In 2012, the then business secretary, Vince Cable, made changes to the way directors’ pay was announced and introduced a binding vote on pay every three years. The green paper was published as Sir Martin Sorrell, the chief executive of the advertising company WPP, whose pay deals have previously faced scrutiny from politicians, was handed £11.2m in shares that will pay out in five years.  Sorrell received more than £70m in shares and cash in 2015 and last year, Boris Johnson, then mayor of London, appeared to single him out when he criticised the gap between boardroom pay and the wider workforce. At the time Johnson quoted figures of a boss receiving 780 times of their workforce, which matched statistics compiled for WPP.  WPP said the latest share awards were subject to tougher performance requirements and paid out a smaller maximum than in the past.  