Online shoppers will typically spend two-and-a-half hours sorting out a delivery problem this Christmas - because an item is late, turns up broken or doesn’t arrive at all – Citizens Advice has warned. With the busiest shopping period of the year now under way, the national charity’s latest consumer advice trends report reveals people experienced 4.8m delivery problems last year –and spent 11.8m hours trying to sort them out. That is the equivalent of just under two-and-a-half hours per adult.  Those who were subsequently not compensated were left £148m out of pocket – £30 a parcel – because of damaged or lost goods, hours wasted and time away from work, the charity said. It is advising shoppers that it is retailers’ responsibility to sort out delivery problems, not that of “third party” parcel companies.  Analysis of the more than 2,000 calls to Citizens Advice about deliveries in the past 12 months showed difficulty getting through to the delivery company was the most common problem, followed by confusion about responsibility and compensation and unexpected handling fees on parcels sent from outside the EU. As many as 390m parcels will be handled by private companies and Royal Mail between November and December this year. Citizens Advice is preparing for a rise in people seeking help for problems with deliveries.  There was a 32% increase in calls about this issue between October and December 2015. And there was a 60% spike in people getting online help closer to Christmas on 18 December last year – as they try to track down missing gifts before the holiday. “Shopping online should make people’s lives easier – but not if their items turn up damaged or don’t arrive at all” said Gillian Guy, the chief executive of Citizens Advice. “We’re expecting more people to seek our help over the festive season as consumers try to track down gifts or look to get compensation for items that are broken or never arrive.  “It’s really important people know that if an item they’ve ordered doesn’t turn up – or if there is a problem with it – it is for the retailer to sort out. Businesses also need to make sure they are upholding people’s rights by looking into delivery problems themselves instead of passing customers onto the parcel companies.” Consumers are advised that if they are posting a gift, they should keep hold of the receipt so they can claim compensation for the item if anything goes wrong. They also also need proof of sending which can be obtained from the Post Office or postal delivery company. If valuables are being sent, Citizens Advice also recommends using an insured service such as Royal Mail’s Special Delivery or shopping around for another postal service. Their terms and conditions will explain what is and isn’t covered.   