The reports this week that ratings agency Standard & Poor’s might lower Australia’s credit rating highlighted that for the most part talk about government debt by both political parties doesn’t actually have much to do with the state of our economy. When you look at talk about government debt, it’s soon obvious that no one actually argues it is inhibiting economic growth. All the worry is about what might happen in the future – will we have room for stimulus measures should the economy slow, and rather more abstractly, will our debt level cause the ratings agencies to lower our triple-A credit rating? At the moment, Australia is one of only 10 nations to have a triple A rating from the three agencies of Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s. This week came reports that S&P, which in July put Australia on a negative credit outlook, might use the updated budget figures in December’s mid-year economic and fiscal outlook as a trigger for the downgrade. While there is a good chance that government revenue will be improved by the recent increases in coal and iron ore prices, Treasury officials told the Senate estimates hearing this week there was a lot of uncertainty about how long those higher prices would remain in place. As such, the number in the Myefo might not show much of a lowering of the deficit, and thus S&P might decide the path back to surplus is too slow or unrealistic and take away our triple-A rating. Yet really we should ask why on Earth does such an agency have so much importance? S&P for example is the only one of the three major credit agencies to not have the US rated triple A. It is frankly absurd to think that the US would be in any way unable to repay its debt given its status as the world’s largest economy with a currency that is far and away the most traded in the world. But now that same agency is looking askance at our own situation, despite our economy growing faster than all but Luxembourg and Sweden among the 10 economies with a triple-A rating, and with the third lowest level of gross government debt of those 10 as well. The concerns of a lowering of our credit rating are both political and economic.  A downgrade looks bad for any government, and it was clear in Senate estimates this week that both sides are laying the foundations to blame each other should it occur.  But economically the worry is that a downgrade will raise the cost of borrowing for the government, which in turn would do the same for state and local governments and Australian corporations, given the interest rate they pay is linked to that of the government.  While inevitably banks would pass on these increased lending costs onto consumers, the reality is no one is quite sure just how much those costs would be – if any.  The new head of the Reserve Bank, Philip Lowe, told the house economics committee soon after taking over the position last month, that the effects of a ratings downgrade on borrowing costs are “quite small”. He suggested that rather than be the main game, that credit ratings were just “a useful reminder that we need to make sure the recurrent budget is on a good path”. But while our government debt remains “admirable” by international standards, as the secretary of the treasury, John Fraser, noted this week, our levels of private debt are extremely high – indeed fifth-highest in the world. Worryingly, the IMF in its recent fiscal monitor report noted the level of this debt was a concern for Australia’s ongoing financial stability. Fraser noted this aspect as well in his appearance before the Senate estimates committee, telling the committee that the Treasury, “are also conscious that credit rating agencies are focusing on household debt as well as corporate and government debt”. Policies to lower private debt however are much more thin on the ground than are the cries about the need to cut government spending to reduce government debt.  The shadow treasurer, Chris Bowen, this week raised the issue in an opinion piece published by Guardian Australia. He highlighted that the ALP’s policy on capital gains tax and negative gearing, which it took to the last election, was the type of policy proscribed by organisations like the IMF to temper our love of taking on more and more private debt.  Should S&P downgrade Australia’s credit rating, no doubt almost all commentary and debate will focus on government debt. But regardless of whether or not such a downgrade will cause interest rates for governments and companies to rise, private – not government – debt will remain the issue that most urgently needs to be addressed.  