The role of the weak pound in pushing up prices for UK shoppers and motorists will become clearer this week, with official figures expected to show a sharp rise in inflation. One leading economic forecaster is warning that rising costs will continue to hit consumer spending next year and in 2018, as a decline in business investment after the Brexit vote applies further downward pressure to economic growth.  Inflation is forecast to have hit its highest level since late 2014, when measured on the consumer prices index (CPI). Economists forecast the rate will have jumped to 0.9% in September from 0.6% in August when the data is published on Tuesday, according to a Reuters poll. Sterling’s plunge against other currencies since June’s vote to leave the EU has raised the cost of imports to the UK and last week sparked a pricing row between Marmite maker Unilever and supermarket Tesco. Experts say currency moves will take time to trickle down to the prices consumers pay at the tills but they expect some early effects to be seen in September’s inflation figures.  “CPI inflation should jump up in September, and looks set to rise quickly over the coming months,” said the consultancy Capital Economics in a note to clients predicting a 1% inflation reading for September. “A rise in September looks inevitable. The drop in sterling and rise in dollar oil prices has seen fuel prices at the pumps rise by over 1% in September.” “What’s more, we expect inflation to pick up further next year, to over 2% by spring as the effects of the drop in the exchange rate work its way through the inflation pipeline.” The EY Item Club, a forecasting group that uses Treasury modelling, expects the UK economy to grow 1.9% this year, fuelled by a 2.5% rise in consumer spending on the back of low inflation. However, this performance is expected to fizzle out, as inflation jumps to 2.6% next year and 1.8% in 2018, causing consumer spending to slump to 0.5% and 0.9% respectively.  Alan Clarke, economist at Scotiabank in London, is predicting inflation will rise to 0.8% in September as an increase in fuel prices overshadows the impact of cheaper food. He expects that downward effect from food prices to fade once supermarkets stop cutting prices. “Last week’s Tesco versus Unilever standoff highlighted that the end of the supermarket price war may be close,” he added. Economists at Daiwa Capital Markets highlighted the likely effect of a weaker pound, which recently touched new 31-year lows against the US dollar. “The data are … expected to suggest that the sharp depreciation in sterling following the referendum has already started to push prices up,” they wrote in a research note. The prospect of rising inflation spooked financial markets last week and investors offloaded UK government bonds, known as gilts. At the close of another tumultuous week on markets, 10-year gilt yields, which move inversely to prices, rose to their highest levels since the referendum in June. The pound remained under pressure against the dollar and the euro, falling to below $1.22 and €1.11. That compares with $1.49 and €1.31 the night of the vote on EU membership. The key pressure on sterling over the last fortnight has come from worries that the government has set a course for a hard Brexit settlement that leaves the UK shut out of the European single market. Ministers have hinted they would sacrifice that access in return for stricter immigration controls.  Such signals from Theresa May’s government had “shattered” a relatively benign market view of Brexit, said economists Robert Wood and Gilles Moec at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Referring to the mood over the summer, they wrote in a research note: “We often heard the argument that Brexit risks were overblown, that article 50 might never be triggered, or that even if it was, Brexit would never really happen.” Now, however, May’s commitment to trigger article 50 by the end of next March, launching the formal process of leaving the EU, meant Brexit was “getting real faster than markets expected, and getting real in a potentially negative way: a ‘hard Brexit’ looks more likely in our view,” Wood and Moec added. The falling pound, inflationary pressures and blow to businesses’ investment plans from the Brexit vote leave the Bank of England with a difficult balancing act. Policymakers cut interest rates to a record low of 0.25% in August and hinted at another cut to follow before the end of the year. But after reports suggesting consumers and businesses have shrugged off the initial shock of the Brexit vote, that further reduction is in doubt. “Until the last couple of weeks, the monetary policy outlook had appeared clear cut, with the monetary policy committee giving a strong steer that it intended to loosen policy again before the end of the year. But since then the enduring strength of the incoming data and the further sharp depreciation of the pound have thrown a couple of spanners into the works,” said Andrew Goodwin at the consultancy Oxford Economics. 