AstraZeneca has agreed to sell its antibiotics division to Pfizer, the US drugs company that failed in its bid to buy the group in a takeover battle two years ago. In a deal that could be worth more than $1.5bn (£1.1bn), the British pharmaceutical group said it would sell its late-stage small molecule antibiotics business in most markets outside the US to Pfizer. Pfizer will make an upfront $550m payment when the deal is completed towards the end of this year and a further $175m in January 2019. The US company will also pay up to $250m when certain milestones are reached and as much as $600m in sales-related payments, plus royalties on certain drugs. AstraZeneca repelled an unwanted £69bn takeover approach from Pfizer in May 2014. This was due to opposition from UK politicians and scientists who said the deal would undermine Britain’s standing as a centre for research.  Pfizer has since been on an acquisition spree and tried to buy Botox maker Allergan to create the world’s biggest drugmaker, but the US government quashed the deal. AstraZeneca said it was selling the antibiotics business to concentrate on respiratory and autoimmunity, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and oncology. It said Pfizer, whose most famous drug is Viagra, has a large anti-infectious disease division, giving it greater commercial strength to develop and sell the drugs. Luke Miels, the head of AstraZeneca’s antibiotics business unit, said: “This agreement reinforces our strategic focus to invest in our three main therapy areas where we can make the greatest difference to patients’ lives. Our strong science in antibiotics will continue to serve a critical public health need through Pfizer’s dedicated focus on infectious diseases.” Pfizer will acquire the rights to develop and sell drugs such as Merrem/Meronem, which treats pneumonia and other diseases in hospital patients, and ATM-AVI, which is under development to treat multidrug-resistant bacterial infections. Governments are trying to encourage drug companies to come up with new antibiotics as infections become resistant to treatment. Dame Sally Davies, the chief medical officer for England, has said the threatened loss of antibiotics is on a par with terrorism and climate change. 