Southern rail commuters are to be hit by yet more delays and cancellations over Christmas and the new year as the RMT union has given notice of additional strikes in the heart of the festive period. Southern accused the union of “hitting a new low”, warning that the strikes would affect families travelling home for Christmas as well as shops and businesses at their busiest time. A three-day strike by conductors starting on 22 December until the last trains on Christmas Eve will be followed by another three-day strike starting on New Year’s Eve. A spokesman for Southern said: “Not content with causing months of misery, the RMT has now hit a new low and is determined to cancel Christmas for the travelling public. “These latest strikes will not just hit families wanting to get home for Christmas but also the shops and businesses for whom Christmas is their busiest time. These strikes are spiteful, vindictive and pointless given the majority of conductors have now signed up to the new onboard role.” The action comes as part of a long-running dispute between the union and Southern’s operating company, Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR), over plans to reform the role of the conductor and potentially run trains without a second crew member aboard. While unions say the move jeopardises safety, GTR claims the union is opposing it to “hang on to outdated working practices and union power”. Trains would normally stop running early in the evening on Christmas Eve, which this year falls on a Saturday. But passengers could be faced with additional disruption on the two last working days before the holiday, as well as the last shopping day.  A reduced service had been due to run from Boxing Day until new year, with special trains running through the night on New Year’s Eve to take revellers from central London to Croydon. With strikes, Southern will not operate a full service after 21 December until 3 January.  GTR said it was too early to predict which trains would be able to run. Southern has managed to run about three in five trains during recent strikes, and said it hoped to exceed that figure for the next walkout, which starts on Friday.  The announcement of fresh industrial action came on a day when the RMT had suspended a strike at the request of the British Legion, on one of its biggest fundraising days ahead of Remembrance Day. However, a 48-hour walkout will start at midnight on Thursday, affecting services over the weekend, including stopping all trains to Lewes around the town’s famous Bonfire night celebrations.  The RMT general secretary, Mick Cash, said the action was being forced by the “sheer pigheadedness of the company and the government”.  He said: “Govia Thameslink and the government have made it clear that they have no interest in resolving this dispute. RMT has called repeatedly for the transport secretary, Chris Grayling, to get out of his bunker, get hold of the company and get round the negotiating table. He continues to ignore us.  “If government ministers can meet with our colleagues from the Prison Officers Association over safety in prisons then there is no reason whatsoever why they can’t meet with RMT over safety on our railways.” Two further strikes are already planned for November and early December, the ninth and 10th walkouts this year.  So far, 15 days of strikes since April have compounded major disruption caused by staff shortages and engineering works. While both the RMT and GTR issued statements earlier this week proclaiming their readiness for talks, no meeting occurred. The company has made some guarantees on jobs, and offered a £2,000 bonus payment and above-inflation pay rises for two years. But it has pursued a demand to have the option of operating trains with just a driver aboard in some circumstances – something the union believes will ultimately threaten jobs.  