Beleaguered dairy farmers in Britain are enjoying an increase in the price they receive for milk after suffering years of deflation. Dairy Crest, one of the biggest dairy companies in the UK, said there had been a “sudden” increase in the price it pays for milk. The company said it has upped the price it pays farmers for milk by 12% since June while the price of cream has doubled. The comments from Dairy Crest, the owner of Cathedral City cheese and Clover margarine, are supported by official statistics. Figures from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) show the average UK farm-gate price for milk rose 3.3% in July compared with June. However, the price of milk was still 13% down on a year earlier. Dairy farmers have endured three years of falling milk prices due to pressure from supermarkets to lower prices and falling overseas sales of British milk.  The squeeze on the agricultural sector came to a head last summer when Aldi, Lidl, Asda and Morrisons were targeted by protesters who claimed they were paying less than the cost of production. Cows were paraded through the aisles of an Asda store in Stafford, in the West Midlands. The National Farmers Union said dairy producers were facing a “state of emergency” after the price they were paid for milk fell by a quarter in a year. The slight uptick in prices in recent weeks has been driven by lower production levels from farms, with wet weather in June and hot weather in August playing a role, and an increase in demand. Dairy Crest has sold its milk business to Müller but remains a key customer for farmers because it produces Cathedral City, Clover and other dairy products. Ruth Askew, the head of procurement at Dairy Crest, said: “Our farmers have been facing difficult conditions on farm as the whole industry has dealt with unprecedented deflation over the past 18 months.  “During this time we have worked hard to support our farmers by paying a fair, stable and competitive milk price.” Shares in Dairy Crest fell by 4% after a trading update revealed the increase in the price of milk. Mark Allen, Dairy Crest’s chief executive, said: “This sudden cost inflation is likely to have an impact on butter volumes and margins in the second half.” Despite this, Allen said sales were rising for its key brands. Cathedral City has been relaunched this year with new branding and marketing. Darren Shirley, an analyst at Shore Capital, said: “Whilst we fully expect Dairy Crest to be a beneficiary of inflation in UK and global dairy prices over the medium term, in the short term we keep a cautionary eye on the UK cream price, which has more than doubled since May 2016, and which could be expected to negatively impact butter volumes and margin through the second half.” 