The world’s biggest travel company, Tui, has warned that UK holidaymakers will have to pay higher prices next summer due to the pound’s tumble following the Brexit vote. The group stuck to its full-year profit forecast as it sold more package holidays to Spain, Greece and long-haul destinations, offsetting a sharp drop in tourism to Turkey and north Africa. Tui, which owns Thomson and First Choice, said UK revenues and bookings for this summer were up 6%, with “no apparent slowdown in bookings as a result of the EU referendum”.  Friedrich Joussen, the chief executive, said: “We haven’t seen a change in booking patterns since the referendum.”  However, he noted that sterling had lost 9% of its value against the euro, and said if this continued it would push up the cost of holidays next summer. He said: “Yes, you will see some price increases but in the last three years you didn’t see price increases.” Joussen noted that 60% of holidays sold in Britain were packages. Tui has sold 89% of its summer holidays in the UK, beating last year’s figures. Long-haul bookings are up 16%, with Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Jamaica popular, as well as new destinations such as Costa Rica. UK bookings for the winter are up more than 20%, mainly to the Caribbean, Mexico, Thailand and Mauritius, as well as the Canaries and Cape Verde. Bookings for next summer have also got off to a good start. Tui, based in Hanover, Germany, reported underlying earnings before interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA) of €180m (£155m) for its third quarter to 30 June, up 1.1%. Sales dropped 5.7% to €4.6bn, as demand dropped following the attempted coup and terrorist attacks in Turkey and a spate of other attacks in Europe. Like its rival Thomas Cook, Tui has switched holiday packages from the eastern to the western Mediterranean. Joussen said about 2 million customers had altered their travel plans, with bookings to Turkey down 40%. Egypt has also suffered while UK tour operators stopped offering package holidays to Tunisia for summer 2016. “When you have a lot of incidents, that affects the industry,” Joussen said. “It’s like a rollercoaster, up and down,” pointing to the failed coup attempt in Turkey and attacks in Nice, Paris and Brussels. However, he insisted that people were still travelling, albeit to other destinations. He was confident that customer numbers would be up from last year, and that Tui was on track to deliver at least 10% growth in underlying EBITA this year. Tui launched two cruise ships this summer and opened five hotels, with a further cruise ship due to join its UK fleet next summer. Thomas Cook has been hit more by the slump in travel to Turkey. The company lowered its full-year profit forecast last month, when it revealed a £25m pretax loss on operations in the three months to June. 