November 2012: The chancellor, George Osborne, springs a surprise on the City by announcing that Canada’s central bank chief will succeed Mervyn King as governor of the Bank of England. Mark Carney is the first non-Briton to become Bank governor. He is largely unknown outside the cloistered circles of central bankers and financial regulators, but has gained a reputation as a tough operator able to confront the banks at the heart of the financial crisis. December 2012: It emerges that Carney will receive a £250,000 annual housing allowance, taking his total pay package to £874,000 a year when he takes the reins in summer 2013. July 2013: Carney takes over from King. On his first day, he arrives at Threadneedle Street by tube. August 2013: Carney unveils a strategy of “forward guidance”, under which policymakers will not consider raising rates until unemployment declines to 7% (from 7.8%). The Bank’s forecast puts unemployment above 7% in 2016. The scheme is greeted with scepticism in the City. November 2013: Carney reins in the mortgage market in an attempt to prevent five years of ultra-low interest rates and Osborne’s help-to-buy scheme from fuelling a housing bubble. December 2013: Carney announces that Britain will switch to using plastic banknotes from 2016, ending 320 years of paper money. The Bank says it will introduce “polymer” notes, as it prefers to call them, starting with a £5 note featuring Winston Churchill in 2016 and a Jane Austen £10 note a year later. The move follows Carney’s native Canada, where plastic notes are being rolled out. February 2014: Six months after forward guidance was launched, the unemployment rate has dropped below 7% – two years earlier than the Bank had been expecting. However, Carney signals that the Bank will keep interest rates at a record low of 0.5% for at least another year and says policymakers “will not take risks with this recovery”. He also insists that “forward guidance is working”. May 2014: Carney warns that the housing market poses the biggest risk to Britain’s economic recovery as a shortage of new homes drives up prices. June 2014: The Bank is given powers to control the size of mortgages. Carney says interest rates are likely to rise before the end of 2014. Later this month, members of the Treasury select committee accuse the Bank of behaving like an “unreliable boyfriend”, giving mixed messages on when the first rise in interest rates is likely. September 2014: Carney warns workers that they face higher interest rates in spring 2015, before real wages rise. May 2015: The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government is replaced by a Conservative government. The former was the first administration in more than half a century to enjoy unchanged borrowing costs for its entire term. In the first announcement from the Bank under the new government, interest rates are held at 0.5%. July 2015: The Bank governor says an interest rate rise in the UK is “moving closer”. Later this month, Carney suggests the first interest rate rise since the global financial crash could come around the turn of the year. November 2015: The Bank is ready to step up housing market controls if a prolonged period of record-low interest rates risks inflating a property bubble, Carney says. As he signals that interest rates are likely to remain on hold well into 2016, Carney suggests that the Bank may have to revert to other measures, such as tighter lending rules, to keep a lid on house prices. February 2016: Carney says policymakers in the UK could cut interest rates to zero if necessary, but would seek to avoid following Sweden, Denmark and the eurozone by setting negative rates to bolster growth and inflation. Responding to questions from MPs on the Treasury select committee, Carney says the world economy has entered a period of low growth and low interest rates and is likely to be prone to financial shocks.  March 2016: The UK marks seven years of record-low interest rates. Research marking the anniversary claims that rock-bottom borrowing costs and quantitative easing (QE) have cost savers an estimated £160bn, but supported strong increases in the prices of property, stocks and bonds. In its analysis, financial services company Hargreaves Lansdown suggests that loose monetary policy has “annihilated” returns on cash. March 2016: Carney tells MPs that the referendum on EU membership is the main homegrown threat to stability. Later this month, the Bank’s financial policy committee warns that a leave vote risks causing a run on sterling, a credit crunch and higher interest rates for mortgage payers and businesses. April 2016: The Bank repeats a warning that a Brexit vote could harm economic growth and have a serious impact on the pound and other UK assets. This chimes with earlier comments from the International Monetary Fund that a British vote to leave the EU risked damaging the whole region, spilling over into an already fragile global economy. Carney says the impact of current uncertainty is already being felt in the fall in the number of commercial property transactions, while jittery markets had sent the pound down by 10% since the beginning of the year. May 2016: The Bank warns for the first time that Britain could enter recession in the aftermath of a vote to leave the EU. At a news conference to present the Bank’s economic forecasts, Carney says there are a range of possible scenarios for the economy in the event of Brexit and these “could possibly include a technical recession” – defined as two consecutive quarters of shrinking GDP. Carney’s comments draw anger from pro-leave campaigners, with the Conservative energy minister Andrea Leadsom calling them an “incredibly dangerous intervention”. Carney hits back by saying the Bank has a responsibility to the British people, “who don’t want risks kept from them”. 16 June 2016: A week before the referendum, the Bank issues a fresh warning that a vote to leave the EU risks harming economic growth, pushing the pound sharply lower and sending shockwaves through the global economy. Announcing a decision to keep interest rates at 0.5%, the Bank says the vote is the biggest immediate risk to UK financial markets. The warning comes after Nigel Lawson, Norman Lamont, Michael Howard and Iain Duncan Smith write a Telegraph article accusing the Treasury and the Bank of a “woeful failure” to offer a fair analysis of what might happen in the event of Brexit. But the prime minister, David Cameron, defends the Bank, saying the leave campaign’s criticism is “deeply concerning”. 24 June 2016: As Britain wakes up to news of a leave vote, Carney seeks to calm financial markets by insisting that Threadneedle Street will take any measures needed to secure economic and financial stability. In a statement choreographed to follow Cameron’s announcement that he intends to step down as prime minister, Carney says contingency plans drawn up by the Bank and the Treasury will swing into action. The governor draws praise in financial markets for his calm manner and timely comments, but worries grow over Osborne’s silence. 30 June 2016: Carney lays the ground for interest rate cuts following the Brexit vote, saying the UK economy is showing signs of strain. The governor uses a speech to reassure business leaders and investors that the Bank’s contingency plans are “working well” and it is considering further measures to safeguard financial stability.  5 July 2016: The Bank warns of “challenging” risks to financial stability and takes steps to release up to £150bn of lending to households and businesses by relaxing regulatory requirements on the banking sector. 12 July 2016: At a Treasury select committee hearing, Carney faces questions about whether he had “peddled phoney forecasts” about the risks of a Brexit vote. Carney agrees to hand MPs notes of private meetings he had with the chancellor in the run-up to the EU referendum. 14 July 2016: At a scheduled policy meeting, the Bank holds interest rates at 0.5%, confounding City analysts, who had expected a collapse in business and consumer confidence to convince policymakers to support the economy and cut the cost of credit. However, the Bank puts households on notice that a rate cut is certain if the economic situation fails to improve over the next month. 4 August 2016: The Bank cuts interest rates for the first time in more than seven years and expands its electronic money printing programme in a bigger than expected package of measures designed to prevent a post-Brexit vote recession. The move brings relief to borrowers, but angers savers, who have been getting low returns for years due to rock-bottom interest rates. 9 August 2016: The Bank’s post-Brexit economic recovery plan gets off to a stumbling start when it is unable to buy as many government bonds as it needs from major City investors. Threadneedle Street must get reluctant investors to part with government bonds, also known as gilts, in order to provide additional stimulus to the economy under its £60bn QE programme. 7 September 2016: Carney rejects claims that the Bank overcooked warnings of a hit to the economy after the Brexit vote, despite growing signs that the downturn will be shallow. Under fire from leave campaigners, the governor says he is “absolutely serene” about the Bank’s warning of a possible downturn in economic growth and its preparations for the impact from the Brexit vote. But the Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg accuses Carney and the monetary policy committee of going too far in their warnings. 15 September 2016: The Bank leaves the door open to another interest rate cut this year, but decides that the safest option is to wait and see if the economy can continue to weather the initial shock of the Brexit vote. 16 September 2016: Carney reveals that his childhood nickname was “Carnage”. He tells an audience of schoolchildren in Coventry that he likes Dairy Milk chocolate, dogs and the Specials – but not Craig David.  6 October 2016: Theresa May prompts questions about a rift between Carney and Downing Street after she criticises the impact of quantitative easing in her Conservative party conference speech, saying “people with assets had got richer, people without them had suffered”.  Carney backs the prime minister’s call to rethink Britain’s economic policy and rejects the idea that criticism of the side-effects of unconventional measures amounted to an attack on the independence of the Bank. Carney says: “I entirely agree with the spirit of what the prime minister said. I have long said that monetary policy has been overburdened. There needs to be a better balance of monetary policy, fiscal policy and structural policy.” 14 October 2016: Carney says the Bank will not take instructions on policies from politicians, a week after Theresa May took a swipe at the impact of the its actions on “ordinary” people. Speaking at Birmingham town hall as part of the Bank’s Future Forum, Carney says it becomes difficult for Threadneedle Street when politicians comment on its policies rather than its objectives. 21 October 2016: Michael Gove becomes the latest senior Conservative to criticise the governor, accusing Carney of being intolerant of criticism and lacking in humility. Gove compares Carney to the Chinese emperor Ming, whose “person was held to be inviolable and without imperfections” and whose critics were flayed alive. Writing in the Times (paywall), Gove says: “[Carney’s] position is held to be independent and without any error. And so any criticism of his actions is regarded as a thought crime.” 25 October 2016: Carney indicates that an onslaught of criticism of his performance by the Conservative establishment will not influence whether he stays in his post beyond 2018. Asked by a House of Lords committee whether high-level interference will force him to leave, the Bank’s governor says he will not be swayed by political issues as he weighs up the option of departing in two years or extending his contract by a further three years to 2021.  31 October 2016: Financial markets grow impatient for an indication from Carney as to when he will leave his post, following a barrage of criticism from Eurosceptic MPs about his approach to Brexit. An announcement is expected by Thursday, when the Bank next presents its economic forecasts. But sources say Carney is equally likely to delay the announcement until later in November and will take the decision based on his personal circumstances.    Theresa May gives her full backing to Carney and praises his efforts to steer the UK economy through the post-Brexit vote period during a Downing Street meeting. Finally, in a 6pm announcement, Carney ends weeks of speculation about his future by agreeing to stay on as governor of the Bank until Brexit negotiations with the EU have ended in June 2019 - adding an extra year to his original five year term.  