The Bank of England has added housing associations to its £10bn corporate bond-buying scheme for the first time, which could give a boost to housebuilding by reducing the cost of borrowing. The move comes after lobbying from the National Housing Federation and and other groups such as Positive Money, and Theresa May’s criticism of the Bank’s quantitative easing programme and its “bad side-effects” for poorer people.  The Bank’s governor, Mark Carney, had said companies will have to show they make a “material contribution to the UK economy” to qualify for the corporate bond programme.  There was some surprise, however, when the list of bonds included foreign-owned corporations with limited UK operations, such as Apple, rather than businesses that bolster the UK’s infrastructure. Buying the bonds of housing associations could make borrowing cheaper, reducing interest payments and increasing the amount of money available to invest in housing. However, housing experts questioned whether investors such as pension funds would want to buy those bonds, as other bonds currently offer better returns. Peabody, one of the UK’s oldest housing associations, said it was delighted by the Bank’s move, and that as a result its cost of borrowing had fallen by eight basis points.  Peabody owns assets worth £3bn and plans to build 8,000 homes. It is leading a £1.5bn regeneration project in Thamesmead, south-east London, which is expected to deliver up to 20,000 homes. It includes the revamp of a 1970s housing estate that served as the backdrop to A Clockwork Orange.  Susan Hickey, Peabody’s chief finance officer, said: “This is a historic achievement for the sector, demonstrating real confidence in our ability, in our financial strength and capacity to help tackle the housing crisis. This should make it cheaper to borrow and make it easier for us to invest and attract investment in new homes, communities and infrastructure. It is great news.” The editor of Social Housing magazine, Luke Cross, said: “This obviously could accelerate housing and regeneration schemes, like Peabody’s in Thamesmead.” But he added a note of caution: “One question is whether investors like pension funds will want to sell these bonds. They still need to find somewhere safe to invest people’s pensions, and many of the bonds they have at the moment offer better returns than they could get in the market today.” The amount of bonds bought by the Bank of England will depend on the size of housing associations’ issuance. Property and finance made up 2% of the Bank’s corporate bond purchase programme in September. 