Britain’s economy looks on course for a solid finish to the year after a closely watched business survey for last month smashed expectations, although worries about inflation and political uncertainty are making firms nervous about 2017. Companies in the UK’s services sector, which spans banking to hotels, enjoyed the fastest growth in activity since January as they continued to recover from a short, sharp downturn following the Brexit vote. The report chimed with other indicators suggesting businesses and consumers have shrugged off the referendum result for now. The headline reading on the Markit/CIPS UK services PMI [pdf] rose to 55.2 in November from 54.5 the month before. That beat economists’ forecasts for it to ease to 54.0 in a Reuters poll of economists. The index has now been above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction for four months running. The services poll follows Markit’s reports on the smaller construction and manufacturing sectors last week. The survey compilers said all the readings together suggested the economy was on course to grow 0.5% in the final three months of the year, matching the pace of growth in the third and defying economists’ post-referendum warnings of a sharp slowdown. Chris Williamson, the chief business economist at IHS Markit, commented: “The further upturn in the vast services sector shows that the pace of UK economic growth remains resiliently robust in the fourth quarter, despite ongoing uncertainty caused by Brexit. “The three PMI surveys collectively indicate that the economy will grow by 0.5% in the fourth quarter.” The report, which covers most of the services sector but not retailers, showed employment growth picked up to the fastest pace since April as new business continued to rise, helped in part by overseas demand thanks to the weak pound. Sterling’s sharp fall since the EU referendum in June has made UK goods and services cheaper in overseas markets. The flipside of the weak pound for businesses is higher import costs, with services companies reporting pressures from higher food and fuel costs and pricier business travel. Input price inflation remained sharp in November despite easing for the first time since May, and there was a similar trend for prices charged by service providers.  UK firms' input costs have risen at the fastest rate for 5 years so far in Q4. Either margins will be squeezed or consumer prices will rise pic.twitter.com/Mjcs5JwC4n Those inflationary pressures combined with political uncertainty to knock business sentiment, which weakened for the first time since July, according to the poll. Donald Trump’s victory in the race for the US presidency on an anti-globalisation platform was also a factor weighing on business mood, the report said. David Noble at the survey’s co-publishers, the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply (Cips), said: “The ongoing battle with currency fluctuations, a weak pound and the impact of inflation will continue to undermine company profits.  “The silent undercurrent of uncertainty also dampened the mood compared to last month, as business sentiment was at its lowest since July and the second-lowest since December 2012. This reveals how the result of the EU referendum vote, and now the recent US election, continues to have an impact on future business expectations.” With signs that the economy has remained resilient since June’s vote and that inflation has not jumped higher so far, the Bank of England has signalled it is in a holding pattern on interest rates.  It cut borrowing costs to a new record low of 0.25% in August to shore up confidence and had hinted at another cut before Christmas but recently rowed back from that guidance as the economic news continued to beat expectations. 