One of the City’s most influential and highest-paid bankers, Michael Sherwood, is leaving Goldman Sachs after a 30-year career, including becoming embroiled in controversy over the collapsed retailer BHS. Sherwood, a Londoner who joined Goldman after graduating from Manchester University, plans to focus on charitable activities when he leaves the US bank in about six months. A former bond trader who was paid $21m (£16.8m) last year, Sherwood usually keeps a low public profile. But this year he appeared before MPs investigating the collapse of BHS, which put 11,000 jobs at risk and left a £571m pension deficit. It was a public appearance that Goldman bankers would usually prefer to avoid. The bank is proud of its work behind the scenes in securing deals and offering advice to governments and big businesses.  But Goldman was forced to talk about its relationship with Sir Philip Green when he was selling BHS. Green said he was “1,000,000%” would not have sold the department store chain to Dominic Chappell had the buyer not passed an informal vetting by the bank.  Sherwood denied there had been “sniff test” but also had to apologise to MPs for not disclosing that Goldman been approached by Green about a £40m loan to BHS when it was bought by Chappell, a serial bankrupt.  The MPs concluded: “Goldman Sachs should have been either ‘in’ or ‘out’ of the deal, and demonstrably so. As it was, they had authority without accountability.” Sherwood – known as “Woody” – told the Financial Times that his unexpected departure was not connected to BHS. He was regarded as candidate to replace Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman, whom Sherwood said had spent “most of his time trying to persuade me to stay”. The discussions to leave had started before the BHS blow-up, he added. “I didn’t want to have anything out there before I left. On Philip Green, I wish we hadn’t been involved and I certainly don’t think we did anything wrong,” Sherwood told the FT. “It is one blip in a 30-year career and it really played no part in my decision.” The 51-year-old was co-head of Goldman’s European business, which employs 6,000 people and is grappling with the uncertainty caused by the vote for Brexit. Construction of a new head office in London – a stone’s throw from its existing headquarters on the edge of the financial district – is already underway. His co-head, Richard Gnodde, will become chief executive of the European operations.  Sherwood told the FT: “As you know, we were very much in the remain camp … We will readjust, we will have to do what we want. I hope it will be favourable to the UK and we are able to keep a lot of people here.” He achieved the coveted status of partner while he was still in 20s and he told the FT: “I stopped working for money a long time ago … when we went public.” Goldman floated in 1999, putting value on its partners’ stakes in the business for the first time. His stake is worth more than $70m.  “I’ve been a Goldman Sachs addict and it’s very hard to come off an addiction,” he added. In a statement to the bank’s 36,800 staff, the two most senior executives at Goldmn paid tribute to Sherwood.  Blankfeinand Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer, said: “Please join us in thanking Michael, or Woody, as everyone calls him, for his commitment and extraordinary service to the firm, our clients and our people. We wish him, his wife Melanie and their family all the best in the years ahead.” His immediate plan is said to be to focus on charities, including Greenhouse Sports, which helps children in cities access sport. Goldman has a long history of filling government and policy roles. Notable alumni include Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England; Hank Paulson, the former US treasury secretary; Lord O’Neill, who drove the Conservative government’s northern powerhouse policy; and Lord Paul Deighton, who was a Treasury minister for George Osborne. Politicians are also attracted to Goldman. Theresa May warned a private meeting of Goldman bankers about the dangers of Brexit a month before the referendum and before she became prime minister. An audio recording of the warning by May – who was then home secretary – was leaked to the Guardian. 