Britons are expected to embark on a record-breaking £1.3bn online spree as Black Friday kicks off the biggest shopping weekend of the year. The US import has taken the UK by storm, with retailers launching discounts even earlier than usual this year as the battle for Christmas shoppers intensifies. Some of the high street’s biggest names, including Tesco, Argos, Currys PC World and Amazon have upped the ante: offering more discounts, spread over more days, and, in Tesco’s case, opening its largest stores at 5am. The pattern of spending on Black Friday has evolved since Amazon imported the event to the UK in 2010. In 2014 some stores witnessed violent scenes as bargain-hunting consumers fought in the aisles for cut-price widescreen televisions, but by last year the discount extravaganza had morphed into a predominantly online event.  The association for online retailers, IMRG, predicted £1.27bn would be spent online on Friday, up 16% on last year. It will be the busiest day in a week-long spending orgy that is expected to see retailers ring up online sales of £6.77bn in the seven days to Monday 28 November. “Black Friday started out as a single day of discounting, which then became a weekend and now spans an entire week, during which time we anticipate that a high volume of pre-Christmas sales will be made,” said IMRG’s managing director, Justin Opie.  It has become increasingly hard for retailers to hold their prices in the face of rivals’ Black Friday discounts as industry sales data shows Britons are not spending more, they are just starting their Christmas shopping earlier.  Paul Martin, the UK head of retail at KPMG, said the traditional Christmas shopping period had been distorted by Black Friday.  “For retailers it has always been questionable whether Black Friday really benefits them in the long run, and in the current environment of rising costs and squeezed margins – perhaps it’s even more so,” he said. “This year some retailers have decided not to partake, while others have spread their offers out over a longer period in order to ease pressure on logistics and IT infrastructure.” The surge in orders stemming from Black Friday puts major strain on both retailers’ websites and the couriers that deliver parcels. Last year the websites of large retailers, including Argos, Tesco, John Lewis and Boots, crashed due to the volume of shoppers logging on. Now, with more consumers than ever choosing next-day delivery, industry experts think carriers may struggle to keep delivery promises. “Some retailers have gone to great lengths to ensure they are ready and others less so, but even big e-retailers, such as Amazon, have experienced issues on busy days like Black Friday,” said Robert Castley, a senior performance engineer at the digital analytics firm Catchpoint. John Lewis’s operations director, Dino Rocos, said that Black Friday week last year delivered the highest sales in the department store’s 150-year history, with its website experiencing a 300% increase in traffic during the early hours of Friday. “We are well prepared for the demand but it’s our customers who will decide the exact pattern of trading,” Rocos said. Although many bargain hunters are expected to log on in their pyjamas rather than join early morning queues, Tesco is drafting in extra security at its largest stores, many of which are opening at 5am. The shopping centre firm Intu, which owns the Trafford Centre and Lakeside, said it was expecting an influx of shoppers after experiencing a 30% increase in visitors on Black Friday last year. Gordon McKinnon, the operations director at Intu, said: “Early signs this year indicate that Black Friday is still evolving as retailers stretch out the sales period.” 