When flight schedules go wrong, they go horribly wrong. Terminals become chaotic, with long-delayed and increasingly dishevelled passengers spread all over the concourse. There are queues for €5 vouchers to join other queues for overpriced food. Tempers get frayed. This correspondent once spent 13 very unhappy hours in a sweaty Palma de Mallorca airport waiting for a flight to transport us to the relative luxury of Luton. Delays such as these are why the EU introduced its flight compensation rules. Brussels declared that when flights arrive at their final destination three hours or more late, the passenger is eligible for €250-€600 in compensation, depending on the distance flown. They were cited by some as a reason to vote to remain in the EU. Since the EU261 rules came into force, the airlines have spent much of their time trying to wriggle out of them, as the Observer has highlighted. Many will define routine problems as “extraordinary circumstances” to avoid paying refunds. Online applications are made deliberately obtuse in the hope that frustrated applicants will give up along the way. And many do. But, while newspapers traditionally campaign for consumer rights, could it be that the compensation awards (we’ll whisper this very quietly) are just a bit too generous? Take, for example, a colleague recently back from the Costa Dorada this summer. His Ryanair flight from Barcelona to London was delayed for more than three hours. He has since obtained €1,000 (£853) compensation for himself, wife and two children. How much did he pay for those flights? Less than £400. He feels like he has been given a free holiday. The same colleague flew British Airways from Heathrow to Hawaii last year for a once-in-a-lifetime treat with the family. That flight was also delayed, by just over three hours, and because it was more than 3,500km, they qualified for the big one: €600 compensation per person. The family picked up €2,400 (just under £2,000 at the time) from BA. Not quite the whole cost of the tickets, but not far off. You may be left thinking: “I wish I got delayed like that.” Passengers delayed for two-and-a-half hours often find themselves praying the delay will go on for at least another 30 minutes. If they were in America, they wouldn’t be. The US has no formal compensation rules for flight delays. Travellers can be delayed 24 hours on a flight from LA to Manchester and receive nothing, but they can pick up £500 if they are held up for three hours flying in the opposite direction. The EU261 rules are designed to knock the airlines into shape, and keep delays to a minimum, argue their proponents. These proponents include an increasing number of lawyers keen to snaffle a one-third cut of any “award” from the airline. Back in 2014, easyJet complained that “paying compensation far in excess of the fare price places a huge financial burden on us as an airline and will ultimately lead to higher fares for all.” The average ticket at easyJet costs £61.93, and half of all sold are below £50. That means the airline has to pay around three times the ticket revenue it receives when there is a delay. Curiously, the airlines were reluctant when the Observer reached out for comment on this issue. They don’t want to appear to be campaigning against consumer rights. But, off the record, their dissatisfaction with the rules is intense – and understandable. Limiting compensation just to the fare price may make them a little too sloppy when it comes to avoiding delays. But mightn’t it be fairer to repay travellers their ticket price, plus a set fee, such as €50 or €100? Still generous, but not excessive. And we need to be thinking about this, because it’s one of those many EU rules which we may have to renegotiate on Brexit. Finding a way to give newspapers a slug of the advertising cash they have lost to Google is one of those old-media dreams that won’t die. There have been many attempts, most recently in Germany and Spain, but they have all failed. The European commission, we learned on Thursday, is hatching the latest cunning plan. A draft working paper sets out options for a new law. Publishers will have an exclusive right to make their content available to the public and to reproduce it for digital purposes. The intention is to create a better regulatory tool to extract licensing payments from services like Google News. Legislation on its own will change nothing. Publicly funded organisations like the BBC may choose not to demand a fee. And Google could simply stop displaying articles from those who want to charge. The effects can be devastating: when the publisher of Bild, Germany’s biggest tabloid, tried to enforce licensing fees in 2014, its traffic dropped by 80% in two weeks. For licensing to work, news groups will have to act collectively. The creation of Opec in the 1960s transformed the fortunes of oil nations, redressing the balance of power with western-owned oil firms. Should Europe form an Opec for news? Political support for a fightback is at fever pitch in France and Germany, but has been lacking so far in the UK. David Cameron’s links to Google were close. Theresa May, on the other hand, spent years at the Home Office pushing for search engines and social media to take down links to extremist material. She may not be such a fan. But Google is really the wrong target. For many, Facebook is now their primary news source. Publishers voluntarily upload their journalism for free on the platform, where it is then shared between users. The commission’s proposed licensing rights probably wouldn’t apply to the Facebook model. Obtaining fair payment for Europe’s journalistic black gold looks set to remain a pipe dream. What does a government do when the numbers stop going its way? Stop publishing the numbers, of course. That’s how it looked when former chancellor George Osborne ditched the Treasury’s analysis of how his budgets affected the very poorest and the richest in Britain. Instead, after the Conservatives’ election victory, an inferior substitute of this “distributional analysis” was concocted. Rather than looking at 10 income groups, it covered just five – so the impact of austerity on the very poorest was no longer clear. Instead of showing what households actually received, the new model showed changes in the share of public spending received. The newer analysis also projected future effects, not how households were faring in the present. Now Andrew Tyrie MP, chair of the Treasury select committee, is asking the new chancellor Philip Hammond to revert to the old, more transparent analysis. In a government that pledges to create “a country that works not for a privileged few, but for every one of us”, let’s hope Hammond listens. 