Retailers are already being forced to cut the price of their winter ranges as yet another mild autumn wilts demand on the high street for warmclothing.  Department store chains House of Fraser and Debenhams are offering up to 30% off coats, knitwear and boots this weekend, forcing rival John Lewis into a round of price matching due to its Never Knowingly Undersold price promise. Other stores ranging from Hobbs to Phase Eight and Monsoon are also trying to drum up business with selected discounts, while Whistles is offering up to £50 off coats and knitwear. David McCorquodale, head of retail at KPMG, said retailers were trying to kickstart spending as shoppers were holding back on purchases in the weeks leading up to Black Friday, the online shopping bonanza at the end of November. “Last year, Black Friday was bigger than Christmas, with promotions running over four days, so people are holding off spending and that diminishes retailers’ sales in the weeks before and after,” he said. Fashion retailers are struggling to win over shoppers at a time when spending their disposable income on leisure activities such as eating out and holidays has become more popular.  Analysts at Kantar Worldpanel said earlier this month that spending on clothes and footwear in the UK had dropped to its lowest level in seven years. Its figures showed that shoppers spent £700m less on clothing, shoes and accessories in the year to 25 September than they had during the previous 12 months. On Tuesday, Debenhams said its clothing business had fared slightly better than the 4% decline seen across the market in the past six months as growth in holiday clothing, including swimwear, and outfits for special occasions rose, while sales of everyday clothing slid. “Maybe gone are the days of just buying. You have got to really want something to buy,” said Suzanne Harlow, the group’s trading director. The weather has not been kind to fashion industry executives in recent years, with mild winters followed by erratic summer temperatures making it difficult to persuade Britons to update their wardrobes at the start of a new season. However, some of the malaise in spending was self-inflicted, said McCorquodale: “Fashion retailers have tried to straddle the seasons, but have not done a particularly good job of it. A lot of the fashion has just not been that inspirational.” The cold snap earlier this month provided clothing chains with a much-needed boost, according to the weekly high street sales tracker produced by advisory firm BDO, which monitors the performance of mid-sized fashion chains.  However, its latest data shows sales are once again falling, with like-for-likes down 1.21% in the week to Sunday 23 October. “While some of the upscale and bespoke fashion retailers enjoyed moderate boosts, this was offset by declining sales amongst mid-range fashion retailers and across the peer group,” said BDO.  Analysts are keenly watching how clothing market leader Marks & Spencer reacts to the tough trading environment. Its new boss, Steve Rowe, appears to be holding his nerve, with the most notable winter promotion being a chance to buy a wool scarf for £5 when customers spend £40. Rowe is trying to wean the retailer off an over-reliance on discounting after more than 40% of its clothing was sold on promotion last year. 