Will they, won’t they? The answer to the stock market’s latest guessing game will come on Wednesday, when the US Federal Reserve reveals whether it plans to raise interest rates this month. A mixed bag of US economic data in recent weeks and contradictory comments from Federal Reserve members has caused volatility in the market, as investors struggled to pin down what the Fed might actually do. The final major comment from a Fed member before a period of purdah came on Monday, with governor Lael Brainard taking the dovish tack. The Fed decision comes as the Bank of Japan – which also meets this week – and Bank of England contemplate cutting rates further. Analyst Michael Hewson at CMC Markets said: “Given recent data, it is becoming increasingly difficult to imagine a scenario that could see the Federal Reserve nudge rates higher next week. To do so would fly in the face of their claim to be data-dependent, given that third-quarter GDP expectations continue to get marked lower.” On the other hand, US inflation came in higher than expected on Friday, meaning the decision is by no means clear-cut. Whatever happens on Wednesday, the markets will immediately move on. Probably to wondering whether the Fed will raise rates at its December meeting. Plans for a third cruise ship due in 2019 show the desire of over-50s specialist Saga to reduce its reliance on insurance underwriting and expand its travel and broking businesses. It also wants to build up its brand name in other areas, and half-year results on Wednesday will give management a chance to update investors on developments. According to analysts at Peel Hunt, the key questions will revolve around its launch of a panel in its motor insurance business to reach a broader range of customers, the progress of a reinsurance deal with Munich Re and the resilience of the travel operations given the turmoil in the industry. Peel Hunt said: “Saga is in transition to reduce its underwriting exposures and grow its broking and travel profits. The half-year results will show the progress the company has made so far this year. We expect earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to drop 4% to £125m. Lower reserve releases and the recent reinsurance agreement with Munich Re overshadows the gradual increase in the recently established motor broker panel income, which should accelerate in 2017-18.” Investors will also want to learn more about its improved dividend policy, unveiled in April – although, like Saga’s core market, you suspect many might already be on board. “A shocker … a disappointingly poor store where the trading strategy was unclear to customers.” That’s the view of well-regarded City analyst Tony Shiret after a recent visit to a B&Q outlet. For good measure, the Haitong scribe said there was an “urgent need to reinvent this format”. Not what Véronique Laury, chief executive of B&Q owner Kingfisher, would have wanted to hear as she struggles with uncertain trading in the UK and France and growing competition from Homebase, now taken over by Australia’s Wesfarmers. (To be fair, Shiret’s visit to a Homebase store left him thinking it was not particularly cheap, but he added that it was “interesting and different”.) B&Q has been upgrading its technology and is experimenting with new formats, while Laury has unveiled plans to boost profits by £500m a year from 2021 by unifying its product offering across the business. All this, along with buyback plans, has helped lift its shares in recent months. Despite concerns about consumer spending, Kingfisher is expected to report a 10% rise in half-year profits to £420m on Tuesday. But it is the comments on the outlook which will be scoured for clues as to whether B&Q can really fix itself. 