It was one of the shortest wars in history, over within 24 hours. Peace has been declared between Unilever and Tesco, which will mean that Marmite is going back on the shelves of Britain’s biggest supermarket. Short-lived it might have been, but the battle between the two corporate giants reveals a basic truth: the fall in the value of the pound will lead to higher prices in the shops. Competition between supermarkets may blunt the impact, but depreciation equals inflation and there is no getting round this. Living standards are going to be squeezed. What’s more, further drops in the value of the pound are quite possible. Britain has a 6% current account deficit, the Bank of England is thinking about cutting interest rates, while the US Federal Reserve is poised to push up borrowing costs and the financial markets have finally woken up to the fact that the UK’s departure from the EU, on as yet unspecified terms, is going to happen within the next few years. The message to any foreign exchange dealer is clear: sell, sell, sell. But it is not all one-way traffic. A declining currency will help, in three ways, to rectify the imbalances in the economy that have led to the highest balance of payments deficit in peacetime history. First, it will make the UK’s manufactured goods more competitive in overseas markets. This is particularly true of those areas of hi-tech industry where the final value of the product relies more on brain power than imported raw materials. For import-intensive sectors, the benefits will be smaller. Second, it will be an added bonus for exporters of services, ranging from banking and insurance to architecture and the creative industries. Britain is the second biggest services exporter in the world and in recent years, the trade deficit in manufactured goods has been partly offset by a large surplus in “invisibles”, currently running at about £7bn a month. These services are now 20% cheaper in dollar terms than they were before the EU referendum on 23 June, which is a bonus, because the US takes more UK exports than those of any other country. Finally, there is tourism. The falling pound makes travel abroad more expensive, but what is bad news for the Canary Islands is good news for Cornwall. Those who find the Tuscan hills a bit pricey at the current exchange rate might be tempted to try the Trossachs instead. But it is not just a staycation effect: the UK has become a magnet for foreign tourists, whose dollars, euros, yuan and yen go a lot further. Designer brands, now much cheaper for foreign tourists, are flying off the shelves in central London. On balance, the falling pound will lead to stronger growth, higher prices and a smaller balance of payments deficit. Devaluation won’t be pain free. It never is. But in a country with a floating currency, it is the way rebalancing happens. 