Uncertainty over the Brexit vote and its consequences has led to a dip in the amount of junk mail sent through the postal system, according to the Royal Mail. The company said its revenue from marketing mail fell by 8% over the past six months as businesses reined in their spending on advertising due to uncertainty about the outcome of the EU referendum and what form Brexit would take. This decline was part of a broader 4% fall in the number of letters sent via Royal Mail in the six months to 25 September, although parcel volumes rose 2%.  Households will likely welcome the fall in junk mail but it is another headache for Royal Mail, which was state-owned until it floated in 2013. It is not only battling a decline in the number of letters Britons send but competition from UK Mail, DHL and Amazon, which has built its own logistics and delivery network. Dave Ward, general secretary of the Communication Workers Union, urged the postal industry watchdog to step in and protect Royal Mail’s obligation to deliver letters to any address in the UK six days a week.  He said: “Given the continued decline in letter volumes and growing competition in the industry, we call on the regulator Ofcom to ensure its ongoing review of Royal Mail guarantees the company has sufficient revenues and resources to protect daily deliveries and support the UK’s vital universal postal service.” Royal Mail reported a 1% rise in revenue to £4.6bn during the period, but pre-tax profits fell from £116m to £110m. Growth in its parcels business was not enough to offset a 6% deterioration in second-quarter letter volumes.  “We have doubts that parcels revenue can fully offset the secular decline in letters revenue,” wrote analysts at broker Liberum, who added that Royal Mail’s share price already priced in any future growth. Shares in Royal Mail closed down 7% on Thursday at 464p, compared with a flotation price of 330p. Moya Greene, Royal Mail’s chief executive, said the performance was “broadly in line with our expectations” and the drop in letter volumes was within the company’s forecast. Greene also revealed that Royal Mail is increasing the amount it intends to cut by 2018 from £500m to £600m and is reducing its capital expenditure from an average of £615m per year over the last three years to £500m. The company is now preparing for the vital festive season, when the surge in online shopping orders and sending of Christmas cards lead to its busiest period of the year. “As always, our performance for the full year will be dependent on the important Christmas period,” Greene said. “Extensive planning, which began in the spring, will help us to manage our busiest time. This includes the recruitment of over 19,000 temporary staff and opening nine temporary parcel sort centres.” Nicholas Hyett, analyst at broker Hargreaves Lansdown, said the declines in the letter business were “painful”. He said: “The 5% fall in underlying profits at Royal Mail is largely the result of continuing weakness in the letters business. True, the decline is in line with company expectations but it’s still painful. Fortunately the European business is delivering a strong performance, boosted by currency movements, and continues to pick up the slack.” Meanwhile, rival UK Mail also revealed on Thursday that it posted a far smaller 0.4% drop in daily mail volumes over the past six months. However, it suffered a 2.1% drop in average daily parcel volumes, which it blamed on strong growth in the same period last year after taking on customers from City Link, which collapsed in 2015. Overall UK Mail, which recently agreed a £243m takeover offer from Deutsche Post, suffered a 3.2% drop in revenues to £230m in the six months to the end of September, but pre-tax profits rose 17% to £5.8m. 