In December, the Guardian published its investigation of Sports Direct that revealed how temporary workers at the retail chain’s Derbyshire warehouse were effectively receiving hourly rates of pay below the minimum wage. Undercover reporters also found that thousands of the company’s warehouse workers were subjected to an extraordinary regime of surveillance. This included rigorous searches, on unpaid time, down to the last layer of clothing and being warned they would be sacked if they receive six black marks – or “strikes” – over a six-month period for offences including a “period of reported sickness”, “errors” and “excessive/long toilet breaks”.  The reports provoked the following responses from the company. Working conditionsThe company did not respond to the Guardian’s reports for a week, when it announced that it would launch a review of all agency staff terms and conditions to be overseen personally by its founder Mike Ashley. The billionaire has said the review will never be completed and he has never publicly reported its findings. Ashley has since also appointed a law firm, RPC, to conduct a review but trade unions say RPC is insufficiently independent because it has acted for Ashley on several occasions. The billionaire has pledged to review the use of the six-strikes policy.  Pay Almost a fortnight after the internal review was announced, Sports Direct reacted again by pledging a 15p an hour staff pay rise at a cost of £10m a year. When giving evidence to this year’s parliamentary inquiry into working conditions at the retailer, Unite’s assistant general secretary, Steve Turner, said: “[The] increase to the minimum wage that was introduced as a consequence of non-payment of national minimum wage – that is the reality of it – [the rise] covers that and prevents a further claim.” While appearing before the same committee, the billionaire admitted that his company had broken the law by failing to pay staff the national minimum wage and that it was “unacceptable” for the group’s workers to be docked 15 minutes of pay for being one minute late for work. He also admitted that “bottlenecks” caused while staff were searched at the end of shifts and which prevented them leaving the site were not “even slightly acceptable” and said the problem had been solved. This week, Unite announced that Sports Direct workers would receive about £1m in back pay. The businessAshley has conceded that he may have to reorganise the company’s senior management as he had been struggling to control the business he founded, in which he still owns a majority stake. It has emerged that large shareholders in Sports Direct are considering voting against the reappointment of the company’s chairman – Keith Hellawell – and other directors at next month’s annual general meeting in a bid to force change at the top of the embattled chain. 