When Mark Carney insisted in a speech at Liverpool John Moores University that the conditions through which we are now living are “exactly the same” as those that British citizens endured during the “lost decade” of the 1860s, he was taking a bit of rhetorical licence. The past is never simply the present dressed up in funny clothes, and the analogy between today’s painful realities and those of 150 years ago doesn’t quite hold. And yet, the governor of the Bank of England had a point. When Overend Gurney collapsed in 1866, it undid once and for all the sense that, give or take a few individual misfortunes, capitalism was a moral force that rewarded skill and hard work. Toppling under a mountain of unsecured debt, the joint stock bank dragged down 200 businesses and a broad tranche of private investors with it, from courtiers to grocers. As with the Northern Rock crisis in 2007, there were queues of panicky investors lining the streets. More profoundly, now came a dawning realisation that bad things could happen to good people. Thanks to the publication of Charles Darwin’s Origin of Species in 1859, the universe increasingly seemed not only godless but, what was perhaps even worse, indifferent to the sufferings of ordinary folk. The shock of 1866 was doubly hard because, for the previous 15 years, Britain had been sailing on a sea of prosperity and confidence. In 1851, the Great Exhibition had showcased the nation’s position as “the workshop of the world”, the great exporter of industrial goods and technological know-how to the four corners of the globe. Business was thriving, the social discontent of the “hungry” 1840s had receded, and this was, to use the coinage of the historian WL Burn, the “age of equipoise”, a serene and sunny upland of prosperity and social cohesion. Increasingly, though, there were worrying signs that Britain could not hold on to its trading pre-eminence for much longer. Germany and the United States were playing industrial catch-up, and would soon be making everything from saucepans to spanners more cheaply and better than we ever could. What’s more, with global transport systems stretching further as each year passed, Britain’s grain, and even its dairy and meat produce, would soon be supplied from as far away as Australia and Canada. Domestic farming was about to go into a decline from which, some historians suggest, it has never recovered. This sense that 1860s Britain had entered a post-industrial landscape of environmental exhaustion and terminal moral decay was there in the literature too. Charles Dickens’ Our Mutual Friend (1864-5) tells the story of “the golden dustman”, Mr Boffin, who has amassed a great fortune from the heaps of refuse that now ring London’s smarter residential areas. Inside those houses, meanwhile, families such as Mr and Mrs Veneering do nothing but surround themselves with the shiny surfaces of their brand new furniture, as if setting the scene for an endless series of selfies. If the economic underpinnings of Britain’s “equipoise” were under strain in the 1860s, then so too was its political status quo. Everywhere, working men were campaigning for the vote. The problem was that no one knew how all those Manchester factory hands and Barrow steelworkers would behave at the ballot box. Their economic interests and cultural ambitions lay so far from those of the metropolitan elite that, according to the prime minister Lord Derby, the 1867 reform bill, extending the franchise to working-class men, would be nothing less than “a leap in the dark”. Yet far from swinging Britain wildly towards radical liberalism, which had been the terror, the effect was to strengthen popular Conservatism. Still, if Carney is serious about his comparison between us and the people of 1860s, he might want to delve deeper and find some reasons to be cheerful. The 1860s, after all, saw the beginning of a new wave of feminism. Bank failures such as Overend Gurney had left women more financially vulnerable than ever: with professional men going down like ninepins, their wives and daughters needed new ways to take care of themselves. Initiatives in education meant that young women were finding new ways of entering the skilled employment market as clerks and commercial artists as well as qualified teachers. In 1870, the Married Women’s Property Act allowed women to hang on to their own financial resources rather than see them pass to their husband to squander. There had even been a serious suggestion that the 1867 reform bill should extend the vote to women on the same terms as men. The fact that this didn’t come to pass for another 50 years makes you realise that, within the detritus of that first “lost” decade, were the seedlings of important new beginnings. Kathryn Hughes When economists refer to a lost decade, they are usually counting each year’s growth and concluding that 10 years of effort have left the country pretty much where it started. Mark Carney meant something slightly different when he used the phrase to refer to the years since the collapse of Northern Rock in 2008. The Bank of England governor was pointing more specifically to wage growth – not the stagnation of all activity in the economy as a whole, measured by gross domestic product (GDP). On that measure, the comparison with the 1860s is correct. A graph documenting the last 150 years shows that wages slumped around 1860 before recovering to leave workers no better off by 1870. But the similarities stop there, as Threadneedle Street points out in its own history [PDF] of the troubles that befell the largest and most famous discount broker in Britain at the time. Overend Gurney, which collapsed with huge debts in 1866, was an isolated case. Or as the Bank puts it: “The idiosyncratic failure of a bank … rather than a systemic crisis with a common cause.” It was allowed to go bust by officials who believed it rotten to the core. Other institutions were saved from contagion by a flood of central bank loans. One result was the destruction of some middle-class wealth. Yet annual wages were more likely affected by the American civil war (1861-65), which denied the Lancashire cotton mills of vital raw materials and forced huge numbers of workers to accept pay cuts or lose their jobs altogether. Sir Roderick Floud, an eminent economic historian and an editor of the Cambridge Economic History of Modern Britain, says the US was already a powerful trading partner and that a blockade of the secessionist south took its toll on Britain, “which is another one-off event and really not applicable to today”. The only decade that resulted in stagnant GDP was the 1920s, which saw violent swings from year to year that resulted in zero progress. The 1930s, contrary to popular belief, was a period of growth, though mostly spurred by public-sector spending on housing and Britain’s rearmament programme.Phillip Inman 