Steinhoff, the South African retail conglomerate, has increased its offer for struggling discounter Poundland after an activist investor amassed a shareholding with the potential to upset the takeover. Its offer, which had been accepted by the Poundland board, has been increased by 5p. Shareholders are now being offered 225p a share plus the 2p a share dividend announced in June for the year ending 27 March. The improved offer values the retailer at £610.4m.  Steinhoff’s chief executive, Markus Jooste, also made clear that the offer was “final” and would not be increased. He said 227p was a “highly attractive” 43.3% premium to the undisturbed share price, although it is still well below the 300p the retailer floated at just over two years ago. “By offering Poundland shareholders an improved cash offer we aim to bring certainty to the transaction, recognising the strength and value of the business and its management team,” said Jooste. Steinhoff already owns Harveys and Bensons for Beds in the UK. Last month, it emerged that rebel investor Elliott Capital Advisors had taken control of a 13.2% stake in Poundland. Since then the US hedge fund, which has a history of pushing for better terms in takeovers, has bought more shares and now speaks for 17.5%. Steinhoff is buying Poundland via a “scheme of arrangement”, which means it needs the backing of investors representing 75% of the voting shares it does not already own to win control. Steinhoff, whose biggest shareholder is Christo Wiese, who also owns stakes in New Look, Iceland and Virgin Active through the Brait investment vehicle, already owns 23.6% of Poundland’s shares so it would be possible to block its bid with a 19.1% stake – 25% of the remainder.  Because schemes of arrangement only take into account those who vote, either by proxy or at a special court meeting, if some shareholders choose not to vote at all, Elliott’s stake could already be large enough to derail the takeover. “The 5p rise in the Steinhoff bid for Poundland is a pretty modest victory for shareholder activism,” said independent retail analyst Nick Bubb, who suggested the small increase in the offer price would mean Elliott would “barely make it a profit” for its efforts. Elliott declined to comment. Poundland’s chairman, Darren Shapland, said the deal offered shareholders the chance to cash in their shares at “an improved price and on an enhanced premium to Poundland’s undisturbed share price”.  “Steinhoff continues to share our vision for the growth and expansion of Poundland and, as such, we believe they are a suitable and appropriate partner for our colleagues, suppliers and stakeholders,” he said.  At noon on Thursday, Poundland shares were down 2.5p at 221.5p. 