Senior figures from Britain’s music industry have called on the government to help them defeat “profiteering” touts at an industry summit on live music ticketing. Agents, promoters and musicians met to discuss how to ensure tickets go directly to fans rather than being traded purely for profit via secondary websites such as Viagogo and Get Me In! Several of them warned that politicians were not doing enough to protect the live music industry, which was worth £904m to the economy in 2015 according to the lobby group UK Music. Prof Michael Waterson, who led a government-backed review into ticketing, admitted during the event he fears his proposals for solving the problem may be “pushed into the long grass”. Campaign group FanFair Alliance said touts were “profiteering via under-regulated resale sites”. “We urgently need government to address these failings and make legislation effective for the digital age,” it said in a statement. Ben Lovett, a founding member of the band Mumford & Sons, said: “They [touts] are doing it very secretly because they know it’s morally wrong but it’s not currently legally wrong so there are no repercussions.” He called for measures to tackle the use of bots, automated programmes that help touts harvest tickets quickly for resale at a markup. Ian McAndrew, founder and chief executive of Wildlife Entertainment, who has worked with acts such as Arctic Monkeys and Travis, said existing consumer rights law was being ignored and called for touts who flout it to be penalised. The Labour peer Lady Hayter, who also spoke at the event, said legislation was “absolutely key”. But Waterson said he was growing concerned at the lack of government action. “I understand that it’s delayed,” he said. “I’m concerned that it will be pushed into the long grass. I do intend to raise the issue if I don’t get a response. I haven’t had one.” The summit, organised by the Music Managers’ Forum and live music website Songkick in London on Tuesday, comes amid mounting dismay that touts can hoover up tickets the moment they go on sale and then list them on secondary websites for huge markups. Bands such as influential US rock outfit Pixies have taken their own steps to combat touting in an attempt to loosen their grip on the UK market. Waterson’s review proposed new measures to address secondary ticketing, including an investigation into whether existing consumer rights law is being broken. The Consumer Rights Act demands that ticket resellers publish information such as the face value of the ticket and the seat number, but Waterson said enforcement of the rules was patchy. “We want to see the existing legislation in the Consumer Rights Act enforced,” said Matt Jones, the chief executive of Songkick. Waterson told the summit he was concerned that the issue had been a low priority with “very little focus on enforcing the legislation”. His review urged secondary ticketing websites to make more effort to identify traders who use the sites purely to make money and suggested setting up a licensing system for touts. Ticket resale is illegal or strictly limited in countries such as France, Italy and Norway. The government is expected to wait for the result of a Competition and Markets Authority report into whether ticket companies are complying with the law, which is due by the end of the year. The digital and creative industries minister, Matt Hancock, gave a speech on protecting UK artists last week but did not address ticketing.  A spokesperson for the Department for Culture Media and Sport said: “The government’s response to Professor Waterson’s report will be published in due course.” 