Economies across Europe risk losing out if London’s position as a dominant financial centre is threatened as a result of Brexit, a deputy governor of the Bank of England has warned. Sir Jon Cunliffe told an audience in London on Thursday that the outcome of the negotiations between the UK and the remaining 27 members of the EU was “not a zero-sum game”. He said that while it was possible that some activities carried out in London would need to move elsewhere in Europe, it would take time for any one financial centre to acquire the “cluster” effect of the capital, where bankers, lawyers and accountants are all assembled in one place. “It is conceivable that, given time, these effects and the benefits they bring in terms of more efficient allocation of capital and risk could be replicated elsewhere in Europe,” said Cunliffe. “It is in my view more likely that if they are lost in London, they would be lost to Europe – for the foreseeable future at the least.  “Fragmentation of wholesale financial market activity in Europe, to the extent that it occurs, is likely to have a general cost to European economies, including the UK. And to the extent that the transition to whatever new arrangements will apply is not orderly and smooth, the costs and risks will be greater.” Cunliffe told a House of Lords committee earlier this month that New York would be the most likely winner of any business lost from London. Financial centres such as Paris, Frankfurt and Dublin are also jostling to win business. In his speech on Thursday, Cunliffe warned the financial services industry that there would be no easing of regulation and that the Bank was looking at the fund management industry to ensure it can cope with customers withdrawing funds. He repeated that the Bank wanted to be certain that the fund management industry would not transmit risks across the financial system. He said that while it is now eight years since the banking crisis, memories were not about to fade. “As far as the Bank is concerned, there will be no going back to the future. The great financial crisis reminded us that the failure of the financial system, though rare, is possible,” Cunliffe said.  “Contrary to the received wisdom pre-crisis, we learned that greater scale, complexity and sophistication of financial markets can make the system more, not less, vulnerable.”   