The UK’s food industry is facing the worst labour shortage for at least 12 years as farmers, manufacturers and processors struggle to find enough workers to prepare for the Christmas rush. The warning comes amid fears of a shortage of truck and van drivers to deliver goods to shops and homes. David Camp of the Association of Labour Providers (ALP), whose employment agency members supply 70% of the temporary labour used by the food and drink industry in the UK, said responses to job ads had slumped as workers from the EU – who account for 90% of jobs in the sector – back away from the UK. Response rates to the ALP’s biggest member’s job adverts are running at only 52% of the level of last year. Camp said that other members had seen responses fall by up to 70%, depending on the sector they were in and their location. Camp told the Food and Drink Federation’s Brexit conference that for the first time he could remember “we are not going to meet all the supply needed for the Christmas peak”. “At this moment in time, labour providers are experiencing the worst labour shortage since before 2004,” he said.  Camp said the fall in the value of the pound had combined with fears of anti-migrant sentiment to deter European nationals. High levels of employment, which meant there were “vacancies in easier work, better-paying work and in permanent work over temporary work”, had also made it tricky to hire staff. “The reduction in the value of the pound means the exchange value of your wages back into your home currency is worth 15% less than it was,” he said. “That absolutely wipes out the increase in the ‘national living wage’. There is [also] the anti-migrant sentiment. Things do get built up in the media but my members were reporting back they were seeing actual cases of race hate and anti-migrant sentiment.” Camp’s comments came as the National Farmers Union called on the government to introduce new measures to prevent a shortfall in agricultural workers next year. “We’re already experiencing a shortfall in EU workers resulting from long-term declines and exacerbated by the referendum outcome,” said NFU horticulture board chair Ali Capper after meeting Robert Goodwill, minister of state for immigration. “We are satisfied that the Home Office has a full understanding of how important access to a competent, flexible and reliable workforce is for food production. However, without basic assurances from government that this labour will be accessible in future, grower businesses face huge uncertainty and are delaying investment in British production.” Horticulture alone needs around 80,000 seasonal workers to pick and pack fruit, vegetable and plant crops across the country.  The food delivery network is also concerned about difficulties in attracting EU workers. The Freight Transport Association calculates the shortfall between the number of registered HGVs and the number of qualified drivers is 34,567. The shortfall is down year on year as the industry has increased pay through higher overtime and bonus payments. But the FTA warns that Brexit could reverse the progress. James Hookham, deputy chief executive, said about 10% of drivers licensed for large goods vehicles and 9% of van drivers were EU nationals and there was “a lot of concern and worry” among them about the future, given the fall in the value of the pound and uncertainty about their rights of residence and employment post Brexit. “I would be expecting that to manifest itself in the next six months or so,” Hookham said. We are going to see people acting on those fears if the pound worsens in value against the euro never mind the deplorable villification [of EU migrants].” He said that workers and employers needed the government to provide reassurance about the future position of EU nationals in the UK labour market. “It is all very well the government saying they want to keep their cards close to their chest but people are deciding with their feet.” 