Leading shares continue to shrug off worries about Italy’s banking system following the weekend referendum and subsequent resignation of prime minister Matteo Renzi. But worries about Europe as well as Brexit are not far from the surface, and support services group Carillion is the latest to warn about the outlook when Britain leaves the European Union. The company, which helps maintain railways and roads, said the pace of new orders had slowed in the second half, and it expected their value to be lower than the £2.5bn won in the first six months of the year. Total orders for the year were forecast to be £16bn, down from £17.4bn last year. It said the slowdown followed the new UK government reassessing its spending priorities ahead of the Autumn statement. It also said orders from the Middle East, especially Oman, were weaker due to the prolonged low oil price. Its shares have dropped 5.5% to 241.8p following the update, and analysts at Peel Hunt said the modest order intake in the second half was slightly concerning: Carillion has much to offer and the shares are not expensive on a headline PE and yield basis. Although debt is high by peer group standards (especially if we allow for the pension liabilities) it is supported by the cash flows from support services. Near term, worries over the order intake and modest progression beyond services will mean there are likely to be better buying opportunities. We move to hold from add. Target price of 275p . Overall, as hopes continue that Italy’s troubled banks - notably Monte dei Paschi - will be bailed out somehow, the FTSE 100 has added 81.42 points to 6861.26. Weaker than expected UK industrial output has seen the pound fall on the basis that interest rates will remain low for longer, and helped lift shares. Meanwhile investors are hoping for an extension to the European Central Bank’s quantitative easing programme when it meets tomorrow, following the referendum in Italy.  Rebecca O’Keeffe, head of investment at stockbroker Interactive Investor, said: The only way appears to be up, with global equity markets continuing their ascent, punishing any bears who may have thought that the market was over-valued. With significant liquidity caught on the side-lines in the wake of the Italian referendum, prices have subsequently squeezed higher, as they have done with every major political event this year. It appears as if the festive party season is extending to equity prices, which look set for the oft-quoted, but rather erratic, Santa rally. WPP is the biggest faller, down 39p at £16.55 as advertising companies were hit by a report the US Department of Justice was looking at their conduct in bids. Liberum analysts said: The US listed media agencies Omnicom and IPG have traded down yesterday by circa 2.5% on average on the back of Wall Street Journal article mentioning that the US Justice Department is investigating whether some of media agencies “inappropriately steered business for producing commercials to their in-house units over independent firms by rigging the bidding process for those contracts”. While we don’t expect any number changes on the back of this article it does add to the negative sentiment re-transparency that has built up through the ANA [US advertisers trade body] report earlier this year. Elsewhere Unilever is down 17p to £31.18 after JP Morgan reduced its recommendation from overweight to neutral and cut its target price from £41 to £32. Pearson is 5p lower at 788p after a poor update from US business Barnes and Noble. In a sell note on Pearson, Liberum said: Barnes and Noble Education, one of the major US college bookstore sellers, were trading down 13% yesterday after they lowered their full year revenue guidance on a comparable store basis and suggested that enrolment trends were likely to remain muted, particularly in Community College where Pearson is over-exposed. For us, though, the real threat is from book rentals, which threatens to structurally weaken the publishers’ business model. But banks continued to be buoyed by hopes that the Italian situation will be resolved, with Standard Chartered up 28.4p to 685.4p. Mining shares benefited from a rise in copper prices, with Antofagasta adding 25.5p to 753p. Lower down the market Paypoint has fallen 44p to 913.5p as Barclays issued an underweight rating on the business. 