Shortly before the fateful referendum, Lord Carrington, the Tory party’s most distinguished elder statesman, was at a Sunday lunch in the country, listening patiently to the younger element discussing the merits or otherwise of one Alexander (Boris) Johnson. When they eventually paused for breath, the great man spoke, and brought the conversation to a halt with the simple remark: “Anyway, he won’t do.” I recalled this episode last week when Ken Clarke, one of my favourite Tories of the generation after Carrington, and now in turn very much an elder statesman in his own right, was reported as saying something that could be paraphrased as “anyway, the referendum won’t do”. What Ken apparently wrote in an email to a constituent was that most politicians “paid lip-service to the supposedly democratic nature of the [referendum] exercise”, but he would do his best “to contribute to mitigating the disaster that this decision on 23 June might otherwise cause”. He said he would probably vote against any move to trigger, via the infamous article 50, the Brexit process, and noted the shambles the government has already got itself into over trying to square the circle of remaining in the single market and customs union while satisfying the anti-immigration lobby. Which brings us to an interesting revelation by Nick Clegg, who has just published his version of the coalition years that wrecked the Lib Dem vote in last year’s general election. Here we are, with the biggest housing crisis since the second world war, and Clegg tells us that either David Cameron or George Osborne (he can’t remember which, but that hardly matters since, to coin a phrase, they were “all in it together”) told him: “I don’t understand why you keep going on about the need for more social housing: it just creates Labour voters.” Clegg found Osborne’s behaviour “very unattractive, very cynical … Welfare for Osborne was just a bottomless pit of savings, and it didn’t really matter what the human consequences were.” This, from a recent interview in the Guardian, provides chapter and verse for the conclusion that my fellow critics and I came to about Osborne right from the start of his nasty austerity programme. Not only was the attack on the poor disgraceful, and out of keeping with the kind of Conservatism believed in by Tories such as the late Ian Gilmour (who was meant to be one of David Cameron’s heroes), but it must have contributed to the revolt against London and the establishment that was one of the factors behind the Brexit vote. In which context, the Oxford economist Andrew Graham – son of Winston Graham of Poldark fame – wrote in the course of the referendum campaign: “One of the more unedifying aspects of this campaign is observing Michael Gove and Boris Johnson, both members of a government that has been imposing cuts in public services, having the gall to blame [the pressure on public services] on immigration.” Now, for the moment Theresa May has ruled out not only a second referendum but even a parliamentary vote on article 50. But Tim Farron, the leader of the Lib Dems, made the point last week that, as the public wakes up to the realisation that leaving the EU is a “calamitous situation that our children will pay for”, the prevailing belief that a second referendum is out of the question may be challenged. I would add to Farron’s observation: yes, “the people have spoken”, but human nature is fickle, especially when faced with dawning reality, and the people may want to speak again. Indeed some of the people are already upset at reports that they may have to pay for visas to go to the continent. One of the more bizarre aspects of this rotten business is the title that has been bestowed upon my old friend and champion of civil liberties, David Davis. Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union. Pure Yes, Minister. You could not make it up. Many people seem to have forgotten that Davis could well have become leader of the Conservative party until he was upstaged by David Cameron, who is now reduced to saying that at least one promise he kept was the one to hold a referendum – in truth, the one promise he should never have kept. Davis backed what turned out to be Theresa May’s ultra-short-lived campaign, although he had often disagreed with her in the past. There is a mutual respect there, but it is already being sorely tested by May’s understandable desperation to maintain as many trading advantages as possible, while Davis is quite cavalier about the single market. He believes that the completion of the Uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations in the 1990s was more important for the British economy than joining the single market (which latter move Mrs Thatcher, no less, initiated). One can agree to disagree on this, but what is especially absurd about Brexit is that the kind of regulations and tariff barriers that are in prospect for British business would make current complaints about “Brussels” look like a vicarage tea party. Yes, sorry: I refuse to accept the prevailing view that we must accept the results of the referendum and “move on”. Bully for Ken Clarke and Tim Farron: I am right with them, and I hope many others will join us. 