A near £100m deal to sell the Football Pools to its management team has failed to get across the goal line. Pools owner Sportech announced in September that the management of the 92-year old business would pay £97.2m to take it over, allowing Sportech to focus on its US gaming division. The pools accounted for around a third of Sportech’s revenues last year. But now Sportech said the deal with the takeover vehicle, Burlywood Capital was off. Sportech chief executive Ian Penrose said: Burlywood was unable to conclude the transaction set out within their proposal which we announced in September. The Football Pools is a valuable asset which has been transformed following a lengthy modernisation programme. We will continue to focus on maximising opportunities for the business. Shares in Sportech, which bought Littlewoods Gaming including the pools in 2000 and added Vernons and Zetters in 2007, have slumped 7% to 63p on the news. Analyst Alistair Ross at Investec said the deal failed because Burlywood failed to raise the necessary funds from institutional investors: Following the Football Pools modernisation programme, which included the closure of the Collector Division, management of Sportech thought the sale of the division represented an attractive opportunity to realise the value of the Pools and so transition the business model. The division was to be sold to Burlywood, which proposed incorporating a new AIM listed company and financing the acquisition of the Pools through debt (£30m) and institutional equity. The sale was contingent on the necessary equity being raised, final agreement of the sale and debt documentation and, in view of its size, approval from the Sportech shareholders. Burlywood failed to raise the necessary funds for the sale to complete, and Sportech has therefore announced that discussions have now terminated.   Ahead of the third quarters due on 10 November, we place our forecasts and target price under review, but maintain our buy recommendation. Overall the FTSE 100 has drifted lower, down 12.02 points at 6942.20 despite an early boost from news that Bank of England governor Mark Carney was staying on until 2019 and better than expected results from Royal Dutch Shell and BP. The October UK manufacturing PMI slipped slightly from September and was marginally down on expectations at 54.3 rather than 55.5p. Shell B shares are currently topping the risers, up 77.5p at 2192.5p, but BP is down 14.7p at 469p. Standard Chartered is the biggest faller, down 43.9p at 668p after its latest update. Among the mid-caps, Weir is down 76p at £16.24 as the pumps maker said 2016 profits would be slightly lower than expected due to weaker oil markets and tougher trading conditions in the middle east. But Moneysupermarket has climbed 21.3p to 283.2p after third quarter revenues rose 12% and it said it was confident of meeting full year expectations. Malcolm Morgan at Peel Hunt said: The third quarter was strong. Insurance is accelerating. Home services has delivered again. Revenue for the year will exceed the consensus expectation, and should beat our top end of the range forecast. Profit will be in line with expectation. The recent share price weakness is unwarranted in our view, so we are happy to reiterate our buy recommendation.  