Plans by leading Italian banks to raise billions of euros from investors to boost their financial strength have been damaged by the outcome of Sunday’s referendum, a leading ratings agency said on Tuesday as it downgraded its outlook for the sector. Fitch – which said it had a negative outlook on the Italian banking industry for 2017 – said profitability in the sector was already frail before the referendum result that sparked political chaos and forced the resignation of the prime minister, Matteo Renzi. “The referendum result could also damage the recapitalisation plans of some Italian banks, most notably Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS) and UniCredit, and have negative implications for the broader banking sector, whose attractiveness with investors has already reduced significantly during 2016. The sector’s ability to access the institutional markets for funding and capital, which has become more difficult and expensive this year, could deteriorate further,” Fitch said. The ratings agency delivered its verdict on the sector, which is weighed down with €360bn (£304bn) of bad debts amid attempts to find investors to inject up to €5bn into MPS, the world’s oldest bank. Senior officials from MPS, which was the weakest of the 51 subjected to stress tests by regulators earlier this year, were in Frankfurt to meet executives from the European Central Bank ahead of an end-of-year deadline to boost its financial health.  But expectations that the government will step in boosted sentiment, with the index of Italian banking stocks jumping 9% and pushing bank shares across Europe higher. Shares in MPS were briefly suspended after falling 5% before ending up 1%. Shares in Unicredit, which has been expected to launch a €12bn cash call next week, rose 13%. Renzi’s resignation has been temporarily frozen by the president, Sergio Mattarella, until the senate passes a budget, perhaps on Wednesday, when a new prime minister from his Democratic party is expected to take over until elections are held. The referendum, which rejected constitutional reforms favoured by Renzi, was held at a crucial time for the fresh injection of funds into MPS, where the US bank JP Morgan is helping to broker a plan to attract investors to buy its shares.  Tomas Kinmonth, fixed income strategist at ABN Amro, said a €1bn complex debt structuring completed on Tuesday “will assist in the capitalisation of the struggling Italian bank”. “This is a crucial step, and perhaps enough to tempt the equity consortium to help rescue the bank,” said Kinmonth. The Qatar Investment Authority – the gulf state’s sovereign wealth fund – is among the investors that MPS has hoped to convince to participate in the cash call.  But the political uncertainty may deter such a private sector rescue and Italy is said to be preparing a package of measures under a “precautionary bailout”. Some €2bn of debt is held by private investors who would be required to take losses under new EU rules. According to reports, however, a plan is being devised under which the first €100,000 of their investment could be protected, as would be case if they were depositors with the bank. 