The government has scrapped controversial plans to force councils in England to raise rents for social housing tenants on higher incomes.  The “pay to stay” policy, which was announced by George Osborne last year, would have seen households paying higher rents from next April if they earned above a set threshold. The housing minister, Gavin Barwell, said the government had reviewed the policy and decided that it did not meet the aim of supporting working class families and saving money for the taxpayer. As a result, it would no longer be mandatory for councils to introduce it.  In London, the policy was to apply to all households earning more than £40,000, while outside the capital the threshold was £31,000. An earlier change of heart before the EU referendum meant that tenants were facing a tapered increase, rather than paying a market rent as soon as they went over the threshold.  However, councils had criticised the policy, saying that it would be costly to implement and lock thousands of working families out of social housing.  The Local Government Association warned that 70,000 households would face rent increases as a result of the plans, while recently Hackney Council warned that families would get very little notice of the changes.  Barwell said that the government had been reviewing the plans since the summer. “We have listened carefully to the views of tenants, local authorities and others and as a result, we have decided not to proceed with a compulsory approach. Local authorities and housing associations will continue to have local discretion,” he wrote. “The government remains committed to delivering its objective of ensuring social housing is occupied by those who need it most. But we need to do so in a way that supports those ordinary working class families who can struggle to get by, and in a way which delivers real savings to the taxpayer.” Barwell said the policy “as previously envisaged did not meet those aims”. The housing minister confirmed the government would go ahead with plans to offer only fixed-term tenancies to new tenants in council housing, and said the government would expect households’ financial circumstances to be taken into account when tenancies were reviewed.  “Except in exceptional circumstances, tenancies should be targeted on those on lower incomes. We will also consider whether other options exist to ensure that high income tenants in social housing make a greater contribution to costs.” 