The release of the latest job vacancy figures were a mix of good and bad news. They highlight yet again how the fight to get work depends very much upon where you live, and that the fight for work is likely to continue to be easiest for those seeking to work part-time. In the August quarter, the number of job vacancies rose – up 2,200 to 175,300. This was the 12th consecutive quarter of the number increasing – one of the best runs ever seen since the ABS began collecting the data in May 1979. Only the 13 consecutive quarters of increasing job vacancies after the 1990 recession is longer. And while the total number of vacancies remains below the heights seen in 2011, it remains a very healthy number of jobs available for those looking for work: Of course, total job vacancies by itself can be a bit misleading. That’s why economists look at the “job vacancy rate” – the number of vacancies as a percentage of the labour force: At 1.38%, the vacancy rate is also quite healthy, if perhaps not as healthy as you would expect it to be given the number of vacancies. And this is where the bad news starts. Economists look at the vacancy rate because there is a pretty good relationship between it and the unemployment rate. As a general rule, the higher the vacancy rate, the lower the unemployment rate – this is because if more businesses are looking for workers, it is easier for unemployed to find work. It is a relationship that has held up quite well over the past 25 years in Australia. But right now given the relatively strong vacancy rate, you would expect the unemployment rate to be lower than it is – somewhere around 5.2%. In the past, with a vacancy rate of 1.38% or better, the unemployment rate has never been higher than 5.4%, yet right now it is 5.7%. That is a concern because it suggests that for some reason workers are finding it tougher to get work than in the past. This might be because the jobs are in places where the unemployed are not, or that the unemployed lack the skills required for the jobs that are available, or it might be that the type of work available is not enough to stop people looking for more work – ie because even though they have a part-time job they are still actively looking for work. One consequence of this is that currently there is slightly more unemployed per job vacancy than you would expect given the job vacancy rate: But even amid this there is still good news. The 4.1 unemployed per vacancy is the lowest since the end of 2012. That good news is tempered somewhat (as all good economic news must be) by the knowledge that job vacancies is a forward-looking indicator. A job vacancy this month often means a job for someone next month (or possibly later). So if job vacancies are growing then employment should also grow. The problem is, while the number of job vacancies is growing, it is doing so at a slower rate than before. This suggests that the current slowing in the growth of employment will likely continue: The breakdown of job vacancies in each state also shows the great differences in economic health across the nation. The growth of vacancies is strongest in New South Wales and Victoria, and weakest is in Western Australia, Northern Territory and Queensland. In terms of fighting for work, the easiest state to be in is NSW, where there are just 3.4 unemployed for every job vacancy. This is just ahead of Victoria’s 4.6: While South Australia, Queensland and Western Australia lag behind NSW and Victoria, the trajectories of the states are quite different. Where Western Australia and Queensland continue to suffer from the drop of mining investment, South Australia is seeing improved growth of vacancies and as a result looking for work in that state has become markedly easier. Two years ago there were over nine unemployed for each vacancy; now it is 6.55: As usual, the most number of job vacancies are in the administration and support industry, closely followed by retail trade. Four of the top five industries with the most number of vacancies also have the highest percentage of part-time workers: Given those industries over the past decade have become even more likely to employ workers part-time, it’s little surprise that underemployment levels are at record heights. The jobs are there, but not so much the hours of work desired. The job vacancy figures are the classic glass half-full/half-empty. It’s good that the number of vacancies continues to grow, but not good that the growth is slowing. It’s good news if you are unemployed in NSW or Victoria; not so good if you live in WA or Queensland and are looking for work. And above all, while it’s good there are jobs out there, it is less good if the work you want or need is full-time work. 