MPs are being urged to back a parliamentary motion expressing “deep concern” about the potential fire risk posed by white goods such as tumble dryers, dishwashers and fridges, and highlighting the inadequacies of the product recall scheme. An early day motion was tabled on Thursday by Labour MP Andy Slaughter in the next phase of a campaign to raise safety standards, after a series of fires across the UK allegedly caused by faulty tumble dryers. It is calling for a government-backed single register for UK product recalls, readily accessible to consumers online. Last week an independent report by the London Fire Brigade confirmed that a faulty Indesit tumble dryer was the cause of a blaze in Slaughter’s Shepherd’s Bush constituency, which ripped through part of an 18-storey tower block in west London and took 120 firefighters to control. After the report – and as part of the London fire brigade’s Total Recalls campaign, which aims to make white goods safer – fire chiefs renewed their call for the dryer’s parent company, Whirlpool, to change its advice to consumers. They also warned of the lack of a robust national system of product recalls in emergency situations. The early day motion tabled by Slaughter on “white goods fires and product recalls” notes that the London fire brigade “has attended over 2,000 incidents since 2011 to tackle fires involving white goods, with an estimated cost to the public purse of over £118m” and with “devastating” consequences for those involved.  Last November Whirlpool admitted that a fire fault exists in some models, caused when excess fluff touches the heating element. However, it did not issue a recall, insisting that people could continue to use the affected dryers while they waited for them to be “modified” provided they were not left unattended. Nearly a year later, Whirlpool is still replacing or repairing more than 5m potentially faulty machines across the UK, under the brand names Indesit, Hotpoint, Creda and Proline. But the programme has triggered criticism, with some consumers being told they must wait for more than a year for an engineer to visit. The motion also states that a London coroner’s recommended changes to improve the product recall system following an earlier, fatal fire in 2010 involving a machine from a different manufacturer “have not yet been made”. The coroner urged reform of safety standards after a father died having saved his children from a fire caused by a faulty fridge-freezer manufactured by Beko. The motion urges the government to agree to introduce a single register for UK product recalls – as called for by the London Fire Brigade – and which also has the support of consumer group Which?, Electrical Safety First, the Chief Fire Officers’ Association and the Local Government Association.  The consumer minister, Margot James, said last week she was ordering Whirlpool to do more to reassure its customers and the wider public about the risks of potentially dangerous tumble dryers. She is also creating a working group on product recalls and safety “to look at what more can be done to improve the safety of white goods, including tumble dryers”. Slaughter will lead a delegation of MPs to meet James on Thursday. He is also seeking a further debate in the Commons on this issue and the wider problems with the product recall system in the UK. Whirlpool declined to comment on the early day motion.  Alex Neill, managing director of home and legal services at the consumer group Which?, said: “The Whirlpool case highlights that the product safety system is not working for consumers. Pressure is now mounting on the government to review this case and the entire system, as it is clearly failing consumers.” 