Few of Britain’s migrant workers are as well paid as Mark Carney and none of them are as well known. But this weekend the governor of the Bank of England is having the same post-Brexit vote thought as every other foreign-born worker: am I still welcome here? At the end of a bruising month, the Canadian could be forgiven for wondering whether he is really wanted. Appointed with a fanfare by George Osborne, Carney is internationally admired and received praise for providing calm during the frenetic weeks immediately after the EU referendum.  But the governor has made important enemies during his three years in the job. Some were made during the months leading up to the Brexit vote when critics in the leave camp accused him of being far too supportive of George Osborne’s so-called Project Fear. There are also remain supporters who think permanently low interest rates and large-scale money creation are storing up big problems for the future. Those nettled by Carney’s high-handed approach have been waiting for a moment to attack. Theresa May unwittingly provided that opportunity. The prime minister called open season on Threadneedle Street when she used her Conservative party conference speech to note that ultra-low borrowing costs and quantitative easing – the Bank’s two main policy tools for boosting growth for the past seven-and-a-half years – were having adverse side-effects. Two other Conservatives, one from each side of the Brexit debate, have weighed in this week. Lord William Hague said central banks had “lost the plot” and provided 10 reasons why permanently low borrowing costs and QE were a bad idea.  Hague’s argument was that central banks needed to get interest rates back up and would face consequences otherwise: “If they fail to do so, the era of their much-vaunted independence will come, possibly quite dramatically, to an end.” While Hague declined to mention the Bank of England or Carney by name, his former cabinet colleague Michael Gove showed no such restraint. Gove compared the governor to a Ming emperor of China, who wielded absolute power and had those who challenged his authority flayed alive. “Carney should ponder the fate of the Chinese emperors overwhelmed by forces they could not control because they could not bear to accept any criticism, and recognise that nothing so enhances authority as a dash – now and then – of humility.” If Gove’s plan was to get under the skin of the governor, his comparison with an oriental potentate worked. Carney cut his teeth as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs, where the credo tends to be kill or be killed rather than turn the other cheek. Publicly, he will shrug the attacks off. Those who know him say that in private he would not have been so relaxed. “He will have have been furious, absolutely livid,” said one.  Carney could get his own back. He was lured to Britain by Osborne to take charge at Threadneedle Street in 2013 on an £800,000-a-year salary. The then-chancellor wanted the Canadian to serve for eight years but Carney said he would only stay for five. The implication was that he had political ambitions back in Canada and did not want to tie himself down in the UK for too long. But Justin Trudeau’s election victory means there is not likely to be a vacancy as prime minister at any time soon. Other options have also been closed off. Carney might be considered a good bet to run the International Monetary Fund, but Christine Lagarde has just been given a second five-year term. As a result, the attractions of staying on at the Bank for eight years have increased over time. Having been committed to leaving in 2018, Carney has been keeping his options open and has said he will make a final decision by the end of the year. But is Carney ready to walk? If the governor thought that he had lost the confidence of the prime minister and the chancellor, Philip Hammond, the answer would be yes. As it is, a charm offensive is being mounted to persuade him to stay. The Treasury says there is no “Get Carney” campaign being mounted in Whitehall. On the contrary, Hammond went out of his way in New York earlier this month to say he wanted the governor to stay on until 2021.  For her part, May took immediate steps to smooth things over with the Bank as soon as it became clear that her comments were being interpreted as an attack on the governor. Downing Street called Threadneedle Street on the morning after the speech to say sorry. The Bank accepted the apology and says it was a cock-up rather than a conspiracy. The backdrop to the debate about the governor’s future is the uncertainty caused by the Brexit vote. Sterling has fallen sharply on the foreign exchanges, the economy is slowing and the Treasury is planning to announce higher borrowing in the autumn statement next month. Former members of the Bank’s monetary policy committee say this is not a good time to be questioning Threadneedle Street’s independence or to be pushing the governor towards the exit. Former monetary policy committee member Kate Barker said: “I don’t think Carney should go. To remove him in a way that looks political would be really, really unhelpful.” Another former MPC member, Andrew Sentance, thinks there is an argument for changing the Bank’s inflation target in order to make life easier for savers and pensioners, but added: “The government has got so much on its plate with Brexit that it does not want to go and pick a fight with the Bank of England.” Those who know the governor say the decision is finely poised but won’t be affected by what is written about him. Instead, it will depend on whether he sees being in charge at the Bank until 2021 as a challenge that will burnish his reputation or a poisoned chalice from which he doesn’t need to drink. 