Network Rail has been fined £4m for a string of safety failures after a woman was struck and killed by a train on a foot crossing. Olive McFarland, 82, was hit in August 2011 by a train travelling at nearly 100mph on a section of track that an employee of Network Rail said should have been restricted to 55mph. However, the safety work had not been done ahead of the incident on the crossing near Needham Market, Suffolk. The company, fined at Ipswich crown court on Wednesday, admitted being an employer in breach of a general duty of care for a period spanning from January 1999 to the day of McFarland’s death. As well as being handed the £4m fine, which it has 28 days to pay, Network Rail was ordered to pay costs of £35,857.  McFarland, born Brenda McFarland, was a former actor who was a regular in television dramas and films between the 1950s and the 1970s. She appeared alongside Sean Connery in 1961 film The Frightened City and in TV series The Sweeney. She had a home at Creeting St Mary near Stowmarket, Suffolk, and lived in a care home in Eye.  A statement was read out in court by McFarland’s nephew, John Black, on behalf of her sister, Dory Black, which described her death as a “crime against humanity”. The fine follows an investigation by the railways regulator, the Office of Rail and Road, which found Network Rail had failed to act on substantial evidence that pedestrians had poor visibility of trains when approaching the Gipsy Lane foot crossing at Needham Market, and were exposed to an increased risk of being struck by a train.  Ian Prosser, the chief inspector of railways, said: “In 2011, Network Rail’s safety management fell below the standards required, putting members of the public using Gipsy Lane footpath crossing in unnecessary danger.  “Over the past decade, Network Rail has focused its attention and investment on improving health and safety on Britain’s railways.  “However, despite now being ranked as the safest in Europe, there can be no room for complacency. Rail safety remains a top priority for the regulator.” In a statement issued after the hearing, Richard Schofield, route managing director at Network Rail, said the company had improved safety since the incident by introducing a speed restriction on the line, and reducing the crossing distance by straightening it and repositioning the gates. However, he added that the company believed removing the level crossing was the safest option and said it was working with the local community to get their support for the closure.  “In the year following Miss McFarland’s death, the executive directors turned down their bonus entitlement and instead chose for this money to be reallocated to a safety improvement fund for level crossings,” Schofield said. Network Rail said it had closed more than 1,000 crossings since 2010 and was spending £100m across the country to improve level-crossing safety. 