The chancellor, Philip Hammond, should limit the impact of the Brexit vote on the economy by excluding public investment spending from his deficit reduction plans in his autumn statement next week, economists say. As the Treasury finalised tax and spending plans, economists warned that a black hole in government finances of more than £100bn could deter the chancellor from boosting infrastructure spending and leave the economy to cope with severe headwinds without extra support. The chancellor is expected, in the autumn statement next Wednesday, to admit that Britain’s public finances have suffered their biggest fall since 2011. The official forecast will show that the UK faces an extra deficit bill of between £50bn and £114bn over the next four years. A cocktail of slowing growth, stagnant wages and lower than expected investment next year will shred forecasts by the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) in March, forcing the government to increase its borrowing just to maintain current spending. Hammond has hinted that he will reverse some cuts in public investment, due to take effect from next April, to fund “oven-ready” infrastructure projects and maintenance. He is also under pressure from Theresa May, the prime minister, to find the money for tax cuts to support what officials in Whitehall call Jams, or families who are “just about managing”. He could also partly reverse cuts to universal credit scheduled to bite from next April. In the summer Labour pledged if it gained power to mobilise £500bn of investment and lending to create a new national investment bank to help the UK economy recover post-Brexit, with £350bn coming directly from the public purse. But Hammond has ruled out a mini-budget of expensive giveaways and a splurge on road, rail and energy schemes as he seeks to restrict the impact of a downturn on public finances. Matthew Whittaker, chief economist at the Resolution Foundation thinktank, said the chancellor should separate public investment spending from the day-to-day departmental budgets and welfare spending, to free up a £17bn war chest to boost skills training and infrastructure projects. Simon Kirby, head of macroeconomics at the National Institute for Economic & Social Research, said the Treasury could boost spending next year while retaining some firepower to cope with a worse than expected shock to the economy. Analysis by the Resolution Foundation forecast that the Treasury would need to borrow an extra £84bn by 2019/20 to fill the gap left by lower tax receipts and higher spending commitments on pensions and other uncapped benefits.  The Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) said the £10.4bn surplus pencilled in for 2019-20 by the OBR was now on course to be a £14.9bn deficit, leaving a £25bn gap to fill during the government’s last year in office. An average of economic forecasts that included those made by City institutions was even gloomier. In a document published by the Treasury, the expected deficit in 2019/20 was £41bn, producing a £50bn funding gap in that year. The OBR has drawn up forecasts that will be presented next week alongside the autumn statement, which is expected to reflect the sharp deterioration in the outlook for next year and subsequent years. Most forecasters believe GDP growth will fall to about 1.2% as inflation heads towards 3% and wages remain stuck at a growth rate of 2.5%.  Consumer spending has driven the majority of the UK’s growth in recent years and a sharp rise in inflation is expected to hit disposable incomes and slow down economic activity. 