Michael O’Leary expects Ryanair to carry 5 million fewer passengers to and from the UK next year due to the Brexit vote. Speaking as Ryanair launched new routes to Strasbourg in France and the Algarve, the airline’s chief executive said he expected the referendum decision to put the brakes on the firm’s UK passenger growth. UK traffic growth is set to slow from 15% this year to 6% next year, but would have increased by a “double digit” amount if the country had voted to remain in the EU, said O’Leary, who campaigned against Britain severing links with Brussels. That means UK passenger numbers are set to be 44.5 million next year, when they “would have been closer to 50 million”, as the carrier bases new planes in countries such as Germany and Poland instead of Britain. He said Ryanair could offset the UK decline with growth elsewhere on the continent and cost savings but warned that “if there’s a material further decline in pricing then profits will get hit”. O’Leary said that while Brexit might mean cheaper fares for UK customers in the short term, as airlines cut prices to maintain passenger numbers, the economy would suffer in the long run. “There’ll be a bunch of halfwits out here going: ‘Great, fares are getting cheaper,’ but as fares get cheaper more aircraft will be moved away from the UK in the next two or three years.” Ryanair has already said it will divert 10 aircraft that were destined for use in the UK to alternative bases. “You’ll see property decisions, investment decisions in London being postponed. Inward investment into the UK is being postponed. “The UK is going to suffer some significant economic damage when they get into the entrails of the Brexit decision. We hope the UK does well out of it, but I’d be very concerned.” He said Britain would not gain greater control over its borders because the EU would not permit access to the single market without allowing freedom of movement. “The UK will end up looking pretty stupid,” he said. The Irishman reiterated previous calls for the UK to build new runways at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted, rather than choosing between the first two. “All it’s going to do is allow Heathrow or Gatwick to raise prices severely. If I was being selfish, it would suit us to see them double the charges to airlines. “They [the airlines] would be forced to put up prices and I’ll still be at Stansted, which will still be the cheapest of three London airports. My prices will rise and I’ll make more money. It’s not in my interest to advocate three runways, but it’s what the UK needs to do.” O’Leary said Ryanair was not asked to join talks between airline bosses and the prime minister at Chequers, despite being the largest airline serving the UK. “EasyJet and BA were invited for tea and muffins at … what’s the country house? Chequers. I’ve never been invited to Downing Street either. I wouldn’t want to invite a peasant like me to either of those two august institutions. “Being Irish, I’d be trying to nick the silver or something else … though we shouldn’t engage in national stereotypes, even if it is slagging off the Micks.” O’Leary’s characteristic outbursts came despite him professing to be “soft, cuddly and much-beloved” as part of an image change.  