Passengers of easyJet and British Airways, and the UK’s biggest package holiday operators, could be charged £25 if they make a complaint about delays, cancellations or lost baggage that is subsequently not upheld. The airlines, plus Thomson and Thomas Cook, have joined a dispute resolution service for tricky complaints that cannot be resolved by the companies themselves. But passengers who use this must pay if their case is unsuccessful.  Previously, the Civil Aviation Authority ran a free mediation service between travellers and airlines for passengers who were not satisfied with the resolution provided by the company.  But under new aviation rules, airlines and package holiday providers have voluntarily agreed to be registered with the external Alternative Dispute Resolution scheme (ADR).  Ryanair and Flybe have joined the retail ombudsman, which does not impose fees, but British Airways, easyJet, Thomson and Thomas Cook have registered with the Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR), which levies the £25 charge on unsuccessful cases.  The charge comes amid widespread anger at the chaotic approach by some airlines to processing compensation claims for delays and cancellations.  Under EU rules, airlines are liable to pay between €250 and €600 (£216-£517) for delays of three to four hours or more. However, in recent months, easyJet has been accused of holding back payments months after claims have been made.  According to research by consumer body Which?, nearly one-quarter of flights departing or arriving in the UK were delayed by 15 minutes or more over the past year, with 10,000 held up by more than three hours. Which? named Vueling as the worst for short-haul delays.  A spokesman for CEDR said: “The £25 fee is payable if there is no merit in the claim. But if the passenger’s claim is found to have any merit at all, then they are entitled to 100% of the compensation due.” Travellers are not required to use an ADR. Many instead opt to go through the small claims court, or use lawyers specialising in claims against airlines, although law firms often take one-third of any compensation awarded.  Which? described the new system for resolving complaints as “hopelessly muddled” and said there should be a single aviation ombudsman. Currently, 20 airlines are registered with an ADR, with three different schemes currently used: the retail ombudsman, CEDR and söp.  