The government is to launch a tourism action plan including cutting red tape for B&Bs and ready-made train tours as an increasing number of Brits take bank holiday breaks in the UK. Just over 5 million Britons are planning a staycation in the UK over the weekend, 6% more than last year, according to Visit England, the tourism promotion body, after a fall in the value of the pound against the dollar and the euro in the wake of the EU referendum vote. The expected surge comes after a record-breaking first four months of the year for domestic holiday trips in England. From January to April Britons took 11m holiday trips, 8% more than during the same period last year, according to Visit England. They spent £2.8bn, 22% up on last year, more than ever before. That continued a strong year in 2015 for staycations when the number of trips and the amount spent both rose 7% on the previous year. The prime minister, Theresa May, who chose to holiday in the Swiss Alps this month, said: “Tourism is vitally important to the UK and the sector goes from strength to strength. Our stunning scenery, centuries-old monuments and cultural traditions continue to draw visitors from both home and abroad.” The government action plan will include internationally promoted rail travel deals, with five easily bookable itineraries that will help tourists get around the UK, although it’s not clear if they will be assured a seat. There will also be changes to regulations to let B&Bs offer visitors a welcome drink without the need for an alcohol licence, or to pick up guests from a station without applying to become a taxi service. Around £40m of previously announced funds will also be awarded on Friday to a string of projects to help boost tourism in England outside London. Among the projects, money will go towards boosting golf tourism, increasing visitor numbers to Kent’s gardens and gourmet restaurants, the south-west coastal path plus other rural areas. The investment comes after turnover for small and medium-sized hotels, B&Bs, cafes and restaurants in the UK rose 6.4% in the first half of this year, compared with last, with London experiencing the greatest increase in the number of new businesses followed by the south-east and the north-west, according to a Barclays survey. An 11% drop in the value of the pound against the euro means that a holiday within the eurozone will cost a family of four at least £245 more now than it would have done before Britain voted to leave the EU. Terror attacks in France, Belgium and popular package holiday destinations such as Turkey have also changed behaviour. Scotland is experiencing particularly strong growth as families flock to Skye and the Highlands to visit locations used in Stephen Spielberg’s BFG film or the Outlander TV series.  “Skye has been absolutely crazy busy this summer – all businesses are saying they have never seen a year like it,” said a Visit Scotland spokesman. But the whole of Scotland has enjoyed a busy season with some businesses in Arran calling it their busiest summer for more than a decade. Rob Ganley, of the Camping & Caravanning Club, said it reached its highest ever number of members this spring and has continued to grow since.  “The staycation trend has gone from strength to strength from the credit crunch to exchange rate changes and concerns about security overseas,” he said. Nearly a fifth of Brits questioned told the Barclays survey they were planning to holiday in the UK this year because they were worried about terror attacks abroad while 22% said they would holiday in the UK to save money. More than a quarter wanted to cut down on travel time. Brits have not been put off travelling abroad altogether. An estimated 2 million are expected to head abroad this weekend, just over 5% more than last year, according to ABTA, the travel association. Spain, where temperatures are expected to hit the low 30s over the weekend, is one of the top choices with Malaga, Mallorca and Barcelona some of the most popular short-haul destinations.  Thomas Cook said last month that bookings from the UK were down 1% in the three months to the end of June, but it expected a strong start to the winter season in the UK, with bookings up by 19% despite Brexit worries. Some holidaymakers may be getting their trip in now while it is more affordable. Travel operator Tui, has warned that UK holidaymakers will have to pay higher prices next summer due to the weakening pound. However, spending on holidays is generally on the rise as people seek out experiences rather than consume things. Official data shows that households are spending less on clothes and food but more on holidays, cars, entertainment and eating out. David McCorquodale, UK head of retail at KPMG, said retailers were now having to battle it out fiercely with holidays and other experiences for a share of people’s spare cash. “Undoubtedly people are spending more and more on experiences rather than stuff to put in the wardrobe. Just look at the rise in music festivals. People like experiences as they make you feel a bit better than you did before, rather than a new jumper,” he said.  