Financial markets are preparing for an uncertain final quarter of the year as traders fret about Theresa May’s more concrete Brexit timetable, the health of European banks and the US presidential elections. The British prime minister suggested on Sunday that the country’s exit from the EU would lean towards a “hard Brexit”, as she implied regaining control of immigration was more important than access to the single market. May earlier announced that article 50 – the legal device to begin the process of departure – would be triggered by the end of March. Some traders fear the prime minister’s moves might lead to a swift fall in the value of pound, mirroring the markets’ reaction immediately after the UK voted to leave the EU on June 23, when sterling slumped to a 31-year low. One trader said that financial markets had not taken account of a “timetabled hard Brexit” when markets closed on Friday evening, meaning the pound could “gap lower” on Monday. However, others argued that the triggering of article 50 in early 2017 was expected, but the debate about what that move would mean would create uncertainty.  Joshua Raymond, a director at financial trading firm XTB, said he expected volatility in the value of the pound, with both sides of the Brexit argument using the media to sway public opinion to their side of the argument. He believes that the government had hedged its bets by also implying a soft Brexit. He said that the prime minister’s indication that the UK would enact article 50 before the end of March could actually be supportive of the pound in the very short term “because of the certainty it provides investors and businesses that the roadmap to Brexit has begun”. He added: “However, the main support could come from recent comments from both the prime minister and chancellor, who spoke out against the idea of a hard Brexit to end freedom of movement. That leaves the door open for positive conversations about remaining in the single market, which is the markets key area of concern”. The wavering over what Brexit eventually means comes as traders also try to take stock of how prices might be affected by a host of geopolitical issues, such as the increasingly bitter US presidential election. Alastair Winter, the chief economist at the investment bank Daniel Stewart, wrote in a research note on Sunday: “Barclays Bank’s latest survey shows geopolitical developments to have become the biggest concern to investors. Moreover, concern over the developed market economies (i.e. democracies) continues to overshadow those over China and other emerging markets. This suggests rising fears that the ‘sans culottes’ with their pitchforks will yet storm the great citadels of the west. “In summary, the political fundamentals are bad enough but may not get much worse soon. Of course ... the economic fundamentals also look grim.” The UK’s FTSE 100 rose by 6% in the July-September quarter, its best performance since 2013, as the weaker pound pushed up the value of internationally focused blue-chip companies. Sterling, though, fell against the US dollar for the fifth quarter running – the worst run since 1984. James Stanley, a currency analyst at foreign exchange group DailyFX, also believes the fourth quarter will be challenging. “There are some very pertinent themes for markets as we enter the final quarter of 2016,” he said, referring the US election and concerns about the health of European banks following last week’s gyrations in the Deutsche Bank share price. The Deutsche sell-off followed reports that hedge funds were pulling assets from the bank amid suggestions that Berlin may be forced into a bailout. Deutsche Bank’s plight has prompted fears that global markets are facing turmoil of the kind triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers eight years ago this month.  Stanley said: “The big worry here isn’t just one bank getting hit. The bigger concern is a contagion effect; because banks trade with each other and if one major bank gets taken out, this can create a nasty cascade effect across markets as other banks get pinched by counterparty risk.  “So going into Q4 this is the top theme for markets to watch because, frankly, it can have the most firepower. It’s also going to be one of the most difficult to time and follow, as this is basically a liquid situation that will continue to morph and develop as there isn’t a template-response for the European Central Bank to handle such situations.” 