New York attorney general Eric Schneiderman has launched an investigation into Mylan Pharmaceuticals, the maker of EpiPens, after the company was revealed to have increased the price of its life-saving allergy medication and device by 471% since acquiring it in 2007.  According to the attorney general’s preliminary review of Mylan’s sales contract with a local school system, its terms may have included “potentially anticompetitive terms”. EpiPens are used to administer medication to someone experiencing anaphylaxis, which is an allergic reaction that causes airways to swell and close. “No child’s life should be put at risk because a parent, school, or healthcare provider cannot afford a simple, life-saving device because of a drug-maker’s anti-competitive practices,” Schneiderman said on Tuesday. “If Mylan engaged in anti-competitive business practices, or violated antitrust laws with the intent and effect of limiting lower cost competition, we will hold them accountable. Allergy sufferers have enough concerns to worry about – the availability of life-saving medical treatment should not be one of them.” A Mylan spokeswoman told the Guardian that the EpiPen4Schools program provides free EpiPens.  “The program continues to adhere to all applicable laws and regulations. There are no purchase requirements for participation in the program, nor have there ever been to receive free EpiPen Auto-Injectors,” she said in an emailed statement. “Previously, schools who wished to purchase EpiPen Auto-Injectors beyond those they were eligible to receive free under the program could elect to do so at a certain discount level with a limited purchase restriction, but such restriction no longer remains.” Schneiderman is not the only one who wants Mylan and its CEO Heather Bresch to answer questions about its business practices. Shortly after the news about the EpiPen price hike spread, senators Susan Collins and Claire McCaskill requested that Bresch testify before the Senate special committee on aging. They asked that she appear within the next two weeks. The two weeks will be up on Thursday.  Additionally, congressmen Jason Chaffetz and Elijah Cummings who sit on the US House oversight and reform committee requested that Bresch send over documents relating to the price hike.  “A national dependence on accessibility to EpiPens has been well established since Mylan’s acquisition of the device in 2007. This command of the market has given Mylan the unbridled ability to increase the price of the two-pack EpiPen,” they wrote. “While families and schools are struggling to keep up with your company’s unreasonable price increases, Mylan has profited richly from its pricing strategy.” To help lawmakers understand the increasing costs of EpiPen, Mylan was to submit a briefing by 6pm on 6 September. It has until 12 September to send over documents including cost estimates, profit projections and past revenue from sales of EpiPens. 