It’s the Conservative party conference this week and City types are agog to hear whether Theresa May will give more details about her pledge to reform capitalism. In July, in what was meant to be one of many campaign speeches for the Tory leadership, May attacked runaway executive pay and said she would put workers and consumers on boards to make companies more accountable to society. Later that day, Andrea Leadsom pulled out of the race and May became prime minister, with her remarks echoing in the ears of fund managers and bosses. City lobbyists are hoping for vague proposals that they can influence during consultation, but May seems committed to worker representation. Opponents say it will upset the balance of boardrooms because directors are meant to be responsible for the whole company and not for a particular group. They suggest instead giving a board member responsibility for communicating with workers. Others, such as Hermes Investment Management, think such objections are surmountable and that a worker on the board is a good idea. First Group, the bus and train operator, already has an employee board member and Mike Ashley has promised one at Sports Direct, hitherto a pariah of corporate governance. The business establishment may have to lump it. It’s just over two years since Dave Lewis, who had just taken over as Tesco’s chief executive, revealed there was a £250m hole in the company’s accounts. Tesco had been overstating revenue paid to it by its suppliers before a whistleblower alerted the company lawyer in September 2014. The scandal was one of a series of profit warnings that showed the terrible state the once mighty retailer had got itself into. Lewis, an ex-Unilever man who had never run a retailer, must have wondered what he had done in taking the job. Things have certainly looked up since then but it’s been a slog, as Lewis has closed and cancelled stores, reduced prices and cut jobs. We’ll get a clearer picture on Wednesday when Tesco reports its first-half results. One thing to look out for will be how Tesco’s fictitious farm brands such as Redmere and Boswell are doing. Over the summer the National Farmers Union criticised Tesco for misleading customers by using English names for non-existent farms when products are often produced abroad. Nevertheless, Tesco hopes the brands will help it fight back in the battle with the German discounters Aldi and Lidl. These are difficult times for easyJet. The budget airline has been buffeted by turbulence over the last year as terrorist attacks in Egypt, Paris, Brussels and Nice have deterred people from flying. Add in air traffic control strikes, a failed coup in Turkey and Brexit and it’s easy to see why Carolyn McCall, the chief executive, says the company faces one of the most difficult periods in its 21-year history. McCall is adamant that flying is a part of everyday life, but after every incident such as the Brussels bombings consumer demand falls sharply and recovers slowly. Investors are also nervous: the company’s shares hit a record high of £19.15 in April 2015 but have plunged to little more than £10. McCall will no doubt try to reassure the City on Tuesday when easyJet publishes a trading update. Brexit is a worry. Not only has the pound’s fall pushed up the cost of fuel (priced in dollars), but easyJet relies on UK travellers for about half its revenue and a weaker pound could put people off trips to Europe. Analysts at Barclays think easyJet is having its worst year for yields, or average fares, but expects it to keep expanding capacity. McCall has been in the job for more than six years: a long time for a chief executive. She’ll need to be at her toughest if things don’t improve. 