As ever, it has taken the smell of Britain’s problems reaching parliament to make government act. After Brexit, the manufacturing sector, which had been ebbing towards recession for some time, has now begun to shrink. We have too few of the higher-paying jobs that manufacturing can offer to poor white boys and girls, and soon we will have even fewer. This is rotting our democracy, not to mention wasting talent and denying us all the prosperity a full use of our workforce, capabilities and assets would bring. So we need something that helps us make things to sell abroad, and make some more productive jobs in the north. Business leaders know this and have welcomed Theresa May’s move to merge the government’s business and energy departments and add the phrase “industrial strategy” into the title. We have had industrial strategies in the UK before, and they have to a large extent got us to where we are now. One element was to privatise national industries like steel, water, electricity and rail. Unfortunately, while this made money for some in the short term, the taxpayer often had to write off billions in debts to encourage buyers, only then to see the break-up of services, the sale of assets and lower investment in research and training. Now, commuters face yet more cancellations on Southern rail, energy consumers are weary of complex deals and switching providers, and governments have been compelled to intervene in the steel industry. Jobs and profits are heading somewhere else. At times it feels like the only major subsidised industry we have left is banking. So, what could a new industrial strategy look like? One which really does work in the interests of all the people, as our new prime minister promised in Downing Street? Firstly, a progressive industrial strategy promotes innovation in new products and processes. We are pretty good at this. Then you need a system to accumulate money and land to build the factories that make the products. We are not so good at that. This seems odd, when the one thing we do own is banks, but it is a product of the “silo effect” taking place on a national scale. Let me explain how it once worked. My dear friend Harris Thompson, known as Tommy and born in 1912, was a brilliant engineer educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) who was once in charge of a system that brought ideas all the way from the bench to products for sale. I knew him in later life when, after teaching engineering at the University of Colorado at Boulder, he had developed a portable respirator so that people could move around instead of being trapped in an “iron lung”. As he explained, you need a complete system so that people can comprehensively test the craziest ideas and see whether or not they work. You then need a way of filtering the best ideas and bringing them to the next stage, and then the next, until they appear in the showroom. He had worked in large organisations that took possession of every part of this journey. When more money was needed, investment came from within the firm. You need such a firm, not just to defend your economy but your life. A proper industrial strategy is not just about the economy, it is a matter of national security. During the second world war, Tommy was given a prototype for the higher-frequency radar transmitters that were needed to detect the German submarines wreaking havoc with Britain’s food convoys. With MIT and American industry, he was able to turn it into something that could be manufactured in the thousands for targeted use against U-boats. What if he had been forced to take the prototype to a banker and ask for the money for the factory, promising in return to develop the prototype for sale to the navy? There is a good chance the banker wouldn’t see a big enough return for the risk and the U-boats would have kept sinking allied ships. We need an organisation that can make the products that will defend our way of life, from idea to prototype to finished product. This really matters when a product is not a luxury but a necessity – such as water, energy, transport and even training. But, just like the US, we have broken up the larger organisations we need in this journey. Why? Because you can often make money in the short term by breaking up big organisations, keeping the profitable bits going, and shutting down those bits losing money. The state can and should stop this. Let’s ask a basic question. What is a state for? The first role of the state is to defend our security and our way of life. Mistakenly, successive governments believed that this could be done using the free market for more and more of the operation. Now we have seen how that can go wrong. From energy to transport, we need to put some of the mistakes of recent years into reverse. We must reclaim the essential means of production and plan together for what we want to do with it. Some of this will require the state to act – to place orders, purchase research and procure products that force manufacturers to train new staff. As we do, we will begin to rebalance not only the economy but society and the country: and the state will once more show it has a reason to exist. Professor Sir Keith Burnett is vice-chancellor of the University of Sheffield and has advised the UK government on infrastructure investment 