There will be fresh clues on how the Brexit vote has affected households and businesses this week with new figures on consumer confidence, the housing market and the embattled manufacturing sector. Economists will be poring over the releases to get a clearer picture of the referendum’s impact after indicators so far have suggested consumers shrugged off the decision to leave the EU but businesses have scaled back investment and hiring plans. The housing market has slowed in some areas but nothing has pointed to dramatic house price falls. After many indicators since the referendum have turned out stronger than economists had expected, some are reassessing their predictions that the economy would grind to a halt in the months following the Brexit vote. “The recent run of data can scarcely be described as stellar, but it has confounded some of the worst fears about how the economy would react to the referendum result,” said Andrew Goodwin at the consultancy Oxford Economics. “It is still very early days in terms of gauging the impact of the referendum on the economy and much could still go wrong. But if next week’s higher profile clutch of surveys for August ... follow the pattern shown by the other recent indicators then this might encourage us to upgrade our forecast for third quarter GDP growth from the flat outturn that we currently anticipate.” Some economists have already raised their forecasts. IHS Markit had been expecting GDP growth of 1.6% this year, slowing to just 0.2% in 2017, but has raised its forecast to 1.9% and 0.6%.  The increased optimism is largely due to the current resilience of the consumer, said Howard Archer, IHS’s chief European & UK economist. “We now believe that the economy is likely to achieve modest growth of around 0.2-0.3% quarter-on-quarter in the third quarter and could well dodge contraction in the fourth quarter.” One key focus this week will be a consumer confidence report on Wednesday from market researchers GfK. That is expected to show households remain nervous about the economic outlook but are less gloomy than in the immediate aftermath of the referendum. The July poll had recorded the biggest slide in consumer confidence for more than 26 years, as people reported being gloomier about their own finances, the broader economy and whether now was a good time to make big purchases such as furniture and household appliances.  August’s headline consumer confidence reading is expected to come in at -8, up from July’s -12, according to a Reuters poll of economists. That compares with -1 in the June survey carried out before the referendum. “We suspect that consumer confidence recovered some of July’s sharp losses as consumers got over the initial shock of the Brexit vote,” said Archer.  “It is also very possible that confidence benefited in August from a feelgood factor coming from the good weather and from Team GB’s strong performance in the Rio Olympics.” Economists say house prices have long been a significant factor in consumer confidence in the UK and there will be fresh news on the housing market on Wednesday from the country’s biggest building society.  In August, economists expect Nationwide’s monthly survey to show a 0.3% dip in house prices, following July’s rise of 0.5% and a monthly gain of 0.2% in June. The annual growth rate is forecast to edge down to 4.5% from 5.2% in July, according to a Reuters poll. Rounding off the week are a survey of manufacturers on Thursday and a survey of construction firms on Friday. These closely watched purchasing managers’ index (PMI) reports from data company Markit were particularly gloomy for July. The surveys’ compilers said they pointed to a 0.4% drop in GDP in the July-to-September quarter, a stark contrast to growth of 0.6% in the previous three months. The manufacturing PMI index is expected to edge up to 49.0 in August from 48.2 in July, staying below the 50-mark that separates growth from contraction. The construction index is expected to rise to 46.1 from 45.9 in July. The PMI report for the much bigger services sector will not be published until Monday 5 September. Philip Shaw, economist at Investec said Brexit related uncertainty hit home in the manufacturing sector in July but he expects some improvement in August, helped by stronger exports on the back of a weaker pound, which makes UK goods cheaper to overseas buyers. “We steadfastly believe that sentiment will have subsequently settled down and that purchasing activity and therefore the PMI will recover at some stage soon, albeit modestly,” said Shaw. For financial markets, the main focus of the week ahead will be new US jobs data on Friday. After the US central bank chief Janet Yellen left the door open to another interest rate rise before the end of the year, traders are awaiting the US non-farm payrolls report for clues as to quite when such an increase might come.  US Federal Reserve policymakers will use the report on the number of jobs added in August to gauge whether the world’s biggest economy is in strong enough shape to take a rate rise as soon as September.  Economists polled by Reuters expect the payrolls report to show a 180,000 gain in jobs after July’s surprisingly strong gain of 255,000 jobs. Looking ahead to the jobs report, Caroline Bain and Julian Jessop at the consultancy Capital Economics said: “While the labour market has continued to tighten, we suspect that Fed officials will want to see clear signs of a renewed acceleration in GDP growth before they green light the next rate hike,” they wrote in a note to clients. 