Retailers have rung up another record Black Friday, but high streets remained calm as shoppers opted to hunt for bargains on mobile phones and computers. The association for online retailers, IMRG, estimated that £1.27bn was spent on Friday, up 16% on last year. It will be the busiest day in a week of promotions expected to deliver online retail sales of £6.77bn in the seven days to Monday 28 November. In the six years since Black Friday first arrived in the UK, the action has shifted away from high street stores. Widely reported scuffles in stores in 2014 and the increasing ease of scanning for the best deals via the internet have encouraged bargain hunters to shop on the web. Tesco opened hundreds of its largest stores at 5am and put on extra security guards and crowd barriers. Sainsbury’s, Debenhams, John Lewis and Currys PC World also opened stores early, but there were few queues. At Tesco Extra in Streatham, south London, there were only 11 people in the queue when the supermarket opened at 5am – barely outnumbering the security guards. Some of those queuing had been there since 4.30am and were surprised how few people had turned up compared with last year. One shopper, who bought two TVs, said: “This is quiet, very calm. Last year at Sainsbury’s it was crazy. I thought it would be a real rabble again.” The supermarket’s top selling items included HD TVs, FIFA 17 video games, iPad minis and Google Chromecast devices. Sainsbury’s in Harringay, north London, was equally quiet and it was about 5.50am before even a small queue gathered outside. One shopper said: “People don’t want to come out because of the fighting. They are doing it all online.” John Lewis, which racked up the biggest sales week in its 150-year history around Black Friday last year, said overnight sales through its website were ahead of expectations with five orders placed every second. The department store joined a wave of major retailers reporting double digit surges in online sales from midnight through to lunchtime.  The Argos chief executive, John Rogers, said there had been 500,000 visits to its website in the first hour of online trading between midnight and 1pm – up 50% on last year. The company said 80% of its online sales came via mobile phones and its top sellers included iPads, games consoles, Dyson vacuum cleaners and Beats headphones. Currys PC World said more than 500,000 shoppers had visited its website before 6am with orders up 40% on 2015. Over the day it racked up 13% more visits than last year as shoppers snapped up 241% more fitness monitors and 60% more drones. Paul Martin, UK head of retail at advisory firm KPMG said: “This has been a pretty big event for the online channel, but in the physical environment it seems to have run out of steam.” Digital agency Salmon said that between midnight and 9am 75% of shopper traffic came via mobile devices and 57% over the day as a whole. It also flagged a spike in the number of overseas shoppers as the weaker pound enhanced the deals on offer in euro or dollar terms. Nationwide said its shoppers carried out over 2.4m transactions between midnight and 17.30, 31% more than on a normal Friday and 13% up on last Black Friday. Its account holders spent over £115m, up 38% on a normal Friday.     