Drax is the leading faller in the mid-cap index, down 4% on concerns about the outlook for the power station operator. Shares in the group - which is converting its plants to use biomass - have been volatile in recent months, gaining ground in the wake of Brexit as investors sought out defensive stocks such as utilities. But they fell back at the end of July after it warned that its full year earnings would be at the lower end of analysts’ expectations. Now they are down 13.3p at 301.7p after analysts at Jefferies cut their recommendation from hold to underperform, with a 240p target price. Oliver Salvesen at Jefferies said: Following severe under-performance in 2015, Drax’s share price has risen 50% in 2016. However we expect this outperformance to unwind due to headwinds in the UK power market. We see around 10% downside to current UK forward power prices due to: (i) growing renewables and interconnection capacity; (ii) weak demand; and (iii) a lower UK gas price. Drax’s earnings and valuation remains sensitive to movements in UK power prices. We see downside to UK power prices which is not currently reflected in Drax’s share price. We expect power prices to fall to £34 a MWh by 2018, versus the current forward price of £38 a MWh. A +£1 a MWh move in Drax’s achieved power price is +11% on 2017 EBITDA. Following the recent appreciation of the US dollar, risks related to future biomass costs have risen. Management highlighted that post 2020, Drax’s biomass costs would be subject to movements in exchange rates. This is set to be a key risk going forward given the sensitivity of Drax’s earnings to fuel input prices. Drax’s earnings are set to become increasingly visible. A positive EU state aid decision regarding the CfD contract for the third biomass conversion is the biggest driver, but capacity market revenues and ancillary service contracts will add to earnings visibility. Despite this we believe headwinds in power generation will outweigh the increased certainty. As UK power prices recovered through the first half of 2016, Drax outperformed significantly, rising 50% year to date, versus +18% for FTSE. We believe current consensus estimates reflect a recovery in UK power prices by 2018. Our bearish assumptions leave us 30% below 2018 EBITDA consensus. 