Caterer Peyton and Byrne has gone into administration, after being deserted by high-profile venues including Kew Gardens and the British Library.  The business has been split in two, with French catering company Sodexo buying the firm’s remaining catering contracts while the Peyton family will take charge of its bakeries operation. Oliver Peyton, who is a judge on the BBC’s Great British Menu, will remain with the catering company he co-founded in 2005 along with 260 staff.  No redundancies are expected and it is believed that Sodexo will keep the brand. Sodexo did not say how much it paid, but investors have sustained a considerable loss in the “pre-pack” administration, where a buyer is found before administration is triggered. The Business Growth Fund, which held an £8m majority stake in Peyton and Byrne, is understood to have recouped only a fraction of its investment in the pre-pack deal reached with administrators Deloitte late on Monday night. “Against the backdrop of an increasingly competitive marketplace, the board of Peyton and Byrne believed that the interests of staff and customers would be best served under the umbrella of a larger service provider,” the fund said. “There will be no interruption, no redundancies, no change in the quality of service and all bookings at Peyton and Byrne venues will be honoured. “BGF, which first invested in Peyton and Byrne in 2012, will no longer have an interest in the business.” The sale will see Sodexo take control of restaurants at venues such as the Institute of Contemporary Arts, the National Gallery and the Imperial War Museum. The French company has contracts for events including Ascot, the Henley regatta and Chelsea flower show. Peyton and Byrne’s contracts will be added to the vast global empire controlled by Sodexo, which has annual revenues of £17.7bn, compared with Peyton and Byrne’s £25m, and 420,000 staff. The catering company went under after two consecutive loss-making years. It is understood to have come to the end of the road after the loss of key contracts to serve food at Kew Gardens and the British Library. Kew Gardens said it had switched to Ampersand catering after seven years of Peyton and Byrne serving food at its restaurants. The British Library ended its six-and-a-half years with Peyton and Byrne earlier this month, in favour of Graysons Venues. In 2014, the company agreed the mutual termination of a contract with the Brighton Dome and Brighton Pavilion. Deloitte said: “This famous catering brand founded by restaurateur Oliver Peyton has gone through a difficult trading period, following the loss of two key contracts. However, today’s announcement confirms the business has a future and jobs are being preserved.” 