Eric Daniels, who ran Lloyds TSB during the financial crisis and presided over a £16bn mis-selling scandal, has emerged as a director of the peer-to-peer lender Funding Circle. Daniels, 65, retired from Lloyds in 2011 after eight years in charge of Britain’s biggest retail bank. In 2008 he oversaw Lloyds TSB’s rescue of HBOS to form Lloyds Banking Group and a government bailout that left taxpayers owning 43% of the company. Lloyds was the biggest seller of payment protection insurance (PPI) during Daniels’s tenure. The bank has had to set aside more than £16bn to compensate buyers of the product, which was often sold without the buyer’s knowledge and failed to pay out.  Three years ago Lloyds claimed back most of Daniels’s £1.45m bonus for 2010, leaving him with £300,000, as the bill for PPI claims mounted. Daniels told MPs in 2013 he thought Lloyds was on “the side of the angels” on PPI and that most of the policies his bank sold to cover people during illness or unemployment were sold correctly. Daniels, who likes to wear coloured shirts with white collars and cuffs, was briefly shortlisted in 2011 to be chairman of the insurer Aviva but was reportedly dropped after opposition from investors unhappy about the HBOS takeover. He will serve on Funding Circle’s risk and audit committees, he told Bloomberg News, which was first to report his appointment. “There has been a sea change in traditional banking,” Daniels said. “New capital and risk-weighting requirements have turned the industry upside down, and it’s become difficult for institutions to continue lending the way they did before. That’s left an opening, and Funding Circle has deftly taken advantage of that.” Funding Circle is one of the biggest of the peer-to-peer lenders that have sprung up with the avowed purpose of taking business from the big banks. It specialises in funding businesses ranging from chocolate makers to small housebuilders and has arranged $2.5bn (£1.9bn) of loans mainly in the UK but also in the US and Europe. Peer-to-peer lenders match borrowers with lenders online, promising higher rates for lenders than bank savings and cheaper deals for borrowers. They flourished after the financial crisis triggered a period of low interest rates and reluctance by some banks to lend to small businesses. The appointment of Daniels, a former mainstream banker, appears at odds with peer-to-peer lenders’ claims to be shaking up the lending market with new levels of transparency. But the sector has edged into the mainstream by becoming subject to regulation and in some cases receiving government backing. Samir Desai, Funding Circle’s co-founder and chief executive, said: “We are a financial technology business, but our objective is to bring in a lot of experience and get the best of both worlds.” Since leaving Lloyds, Daniels has taken consultancy jobs with CVC Capital Partners, a private equity firm, and StormHarbour, a financial advisory firm. He is also a non-executive director at Russell Reynolds, a recruitment firm. 