My brother, Ahilan Kathirgamathamby, who has died of cancer aged 38, was a pharmacist who enjoyed the magic of science and literature, and a weightlifter who bore the nickname “gentle giant”. Born in Redbridge, north-east London, to Sakuntala (nee Thirunavakarasoe) and Balasubramaniam Kathirgamathamby, a research chemist for Croda, Ahilan was the eldest of three, with two sisters, Vaani and me. He attended Cleveland junior school, Redbridge, before the family relocated to Huddersfield for his father’s work in 1989, when he went to Paddock primary school for a year before going to Royds Hall secondary school then Greenhead sixth-form college. He began a pharmacy degree at Bradford University in 1996, however, his studies were hindered by his selfless decision to be my carer when I became ill for a period. He eventually qualified as a pharmacist in 2004 and battled against the pushing of slimming aids at his place of work at the time. He minimised the number of in-store advertisements and ensured all over-the-counter purchases included a consultation. Ahilan took his managerial role seriously, particularly with respect to the welfare of his employees. He became a pre-registration tutor, ensuring pharmacy graduates met the standards necessary to obtain General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) registration. He also helped to establish smoking cessation and healthy weight-loss clinics in partnership with a GP practice. Ahilan paid off our parents’ mortgage with his salary and sold the shares he had received through work to repair our family home following flood damage, without divulging this generosity at the time. While he enjoyed reading everything from Anton Chekhov to Robert Jordan, for him no writer could top JRR Tolkien. He loved his work for the same reasons he also adored Star Wars: they contain the message that hope may be found even when we feel the deepest despair. His other great passion was weightlifting, pushing himself to deadlift – raise to hip level – increasingly heavier weights, which he saw as a test of his physical strength and inner resolve. After developing cancer in 2008, aged 29, Ahilan found solace in writing a children’s book, The Little Polar Bear and Aningan, studying for an Open University English literature degree, and painting. He also continued weight training, deadlifting 225kg. Finding hope in the pursuit of change, Ahilan, a lifelong Amnesty International member who always put others before himself, wrote numerous letters in support of its campaigns. In particular, he was concerned about human rights abuses in Sri Lanka. Ahilan died on the holy day of Guru Purnima, surrounded by his loved ones. He is survived by Balasubramaniam, Sakuntala, Vaani and me. 