Confidence in the food and drink industry is increasingly fragile since the upheaval caused by the Brexit vote, a survey reveals on Wednesday, as the UK’s largest manufacturing sector grapples with increasingly tough trading conditions. Despite sales climbing to their highest levels since 2013, three-quarters of Food and Drink Federation (FDF) members have reported soaring ingredient prices, plummeting product margins and concerns for the future raised by their EU workforce. This trend is expected by most companies to continue over the next year.  Food and drink is by far the largest manufacturing sector in the UK, accounting for 16% of total manufacturing by turnover (£83.7bn a year) and directly employing about 400,000 people across 6,620 businesses. The industry also supports 3.9m jobs across the £108bn UK food chain and contributes £21.5bn of gross value added (GVA) to the British economy each year – nearly as much as the automotive and aerospace sectors put together. The FDF’s UK-based members range from giant brands such as Coca-Cola, Britvic, McVitie’s and Mr Kipling to small-scale producers such as the oatcake maker Maclean’s Highland Bakery. The survey findings reflected the sentiment of a third of its full membership including micro, small, medium and large food and drink manufacturers, it said.  More than two-thirds (69.5%) said they were less confident about the UK business environment while just 11% were more confident. However the survey coincides with the latest quarterly figures from UK retailers showing food sales at their highest levels since 2013, “suggesting a disparity between business and consumer confidence levels”, the FDF says.  It is calling for an “industrial strategy partnership” with government and for urgent assurances for the industry’s workforce from the EU that they will have the right to remain in the UK.  In the survey, almost three-quarters (71%) of companies employing EU staff say these employees have expressed concerns about the referendum outcome, with about one in 12 (8.7%) businesses reporting that their EU employees intend to leave the UK. An estimated 130,000 of the industry’s 400,000 workforce are non-UK nationals – many from eastern Europe, often doing valued seasonal work in agriculture and factories. “We share government’s view that we need to make the best of Brexit,” said the FDF’s director general Ian Wright. “Food and drink industry confidence is low. Slower revenue growth, coupled with prolonged business uncertainty, is affecting the industry’s ability to invest.” The FDF is also calling for urgent action from the government to ensure that essential imports of ingredients and raw materials from the EU and EU Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries do not face tariffs or costly non-tariff barriers. Some British-based businesses have benefited from the weaker pound, which makes their exports more competitive – as long as they still have tariff-free access to the single European market. A government spokesman said: “Leaving the EU offers us an opportunity to forge a new role for ourselves in the world and we are determined to make sure the UK remains the best place in Europe to run and grow a business. As a nation, we’ve sold over £10 billion worth of food and drink overseas in the first six months of this year, and exports are up almost six per cent compared to 2015. We are building on that success and, through our Great British Food Unit, are working with industry to establish new trading relationships across the globe to help boost the sector.” John Stevenson MP, chair of the all-party parliamentary group for food and drink manufacturing, which meets on Wednesday to discuss what Brexit means for the industry, added: “Government and industry partnership has never been more important to the future of this vital sector. Food and drink is a national success story, with massive untapped opportunity to boost exports and improve its already impressive productivity performance, delivering even more for the UK economy.”  