ING’s plans to shed 7,000 jobs and invest in its digital platforms to make annual savings of €900m by 2021 has drawn swift criticism of the Netherlands’ largest financial services company from unions.  The layoffs represent slightly less than 12% of ING’s 52,000 workforce, because nearly 1,000 are expected to come at suppliers rather than at the bank itself.  But they are the heaviest since 2009, when ING was forced to restructure and spin off its insurance activities after receiving a state bailout during the financial crisis.  Unions were highly critical. “I don’t think this was the intention of the [government] when it kept ING afloat with bailout money,” Ike Wiersinga of the Dutch union CNV said. In Belgium, where the number of jobs lost will be highest, labour leader Herman Vanderhaegen called the decision a “horror show” and said workers would strike on Friday 7 October.  Although other large banks have announced mass layoffs at branch offices in the past year to boost profitability, ING said the job cuts were partly to combine technology platforms and risk-control centres, as well to help it to contend with regulatory burdens and low interest rates.  “You have to announce these programmes and these intentions at a time when you can afford them,” Ralph Hamers, chief executive, said. “We’re strong right now, we have good results, we are growing and then you have to do the repairs, and not when you don’t have any choice any more.“  ING said it would invest €800m (£698m) in its technology platform, to be rolled out over the next five years in Spain, Italy, France, Austria and the Czech Republic.   ING has had success, especially in Germany, with a business model focused on maintaining little physical presence and conducting its retail business entirely online, and has won customers from Deutsche Bank. In the Benelux countries, where most of the job cuts will fall – 3,500 in Belgium and 2,300 in the Netherlands – the company is integrating its Record Bank subsidiary, Belgium’s third largest pure retail bank, with ING.  The company plans to take €1.1bn in charges, of which €1bn will be in the next quarter, for redundancies. 