Productivity growth is always a major economic issue, but is often mired in political bun fighting over calls for greater industrial relations flexibility. This week the Productivity Commission released a discussion paper seeking ideas for how to improve productivity but which pointedly asked for new ideas. It’s not surprising the Productivity Commission thinks productivity is pretty important. They do perhaps over-egg the pudding in their latest discussion paper out this week, where they open by suggesting that “there is a justified global anxiety that growth in productivity ... has slowed or stopped”. Global anxiety might be a bit much (as Ross Gittins noted, there are a few other issues to be anxious about, such as climate change), but there is no doubting that productivity growth is important.  It’s important because by and large national income rests on productivity growth. Until Australia had a massive boost in the value of our exports in the mid-2000s, the ABS’s measure of “national wellbeing” of real net national disposable income grew in line with labour productivity: The problem, as the Productivity Commission notes, is that we can’t rely on a boom in iron ore and coal prices to fuel our income growth into the future. So it means we need to think about productivity growth – especially as it has slowed in the past decade: The Productivity Commission suggests that the boom in export prices hid much of the problem for Australia. The paper notes that instead of a sharp fall in national income via our slowing of productivity growth, there has just been an “inexorable slowing towards reduced opportunity, greater dispute over shares of a smaller than expected pie, and selective protection”. And this brings into focus the “global anxiety” the Productivity Commission talks of, because in Australia – as around the world – productivity growth has slowed in the past decade. It’s nice perhaps to know that we are not alone in having this problem. Canadian and Australian productivity growth is pretty much in step over the past 40 years – and both saw a big surge in the 1990s and then a sharp slowing in the 2000s: Given this, it does also highlight that the solution to productivity growth is not just a company tax cut or a change to our workplace relations system. If that were the case you would expect to see significant difference between Australia and the rest of the world, but in fact we’re suffering much the same as others, just as we did as well as others in the 1990s. The issue for the Productivity Commission involves the breakdown of labour productivity. Essentially, labour productivity growth derives from three aspects.  The first is “capital deepening” which is essentially the increase of investment in capital per worker. Usually this is broken down into two groups – IT and non-IT, and derives from the assumption that more capital, such as computers or machinery, enables workers to be more productive. The second aspect is labour composition which looks at the skill level of workers – under the assumption that more skillful workers will be more productive.  The final aspect is multi-factor productivity which looks at the ability of labour to make use of that capital. And this is where we see the biggest problem for productivity during the first decade of this century – most of the productivity growth came from capital deepening and multi-factor productivity actually went backwards: Now, it is not all bad – a major reason for the fall was the mining industry. The massive mining boom in the 2000s actually reduced productivity because it was much more labour intensive than the industry had previously been. And as we now move to the export phase, which is much less labour intensive, that aspect will be reverse somewhat. But the Productivity Commission suggests just hoping that will solve all the problems is perhaps wishful thinking. And it also has some other issues – namely, trying to accurately measure productivity growth. The issue is that there are a lot of things in the economy that affect productivity that don’t get measured. The commission notes for example, that washing machines, vacuum cleaners and refrigerators, boosted household productivity in the 20th century and that “freed up people for employment and leisure” but “these gains are not captured in official statistics.” Similarly, road congestion lowers the efficiency of people’s personal travel, which is not counted, as well as that of public and commercial transport, which is counted. The commission also notes that while it is great to talk of increasing national income via productivity growth, the distribution of that income is vitally important. The commission notes that “public support is more likely for reforms that offer benefits to the bulk of people”. It also notes that while productivity grew during the period, inequality in Australia (as in many OECD countries) increased from the 1990s to 2007. The USA is a perfect example of the issue of worrying about productivity and not inequality – since the 1980s, the link between productivity growth and worker compensation has completely split. A few years ago, the ACTU also issued a report noting that a similar “decoupling of productivity and worker earnings” had occurred here since the mining boom.  So what to do? The commission is not making recommendations at this stage, it is seeking ideas.  Rather wonderfully, however, it has made a plea for “new and novel ideas because there is already a strong awareness of many reform options that parties would like to see implemented. More of the same is not likely to be helpful”. It’s a good point. Mostly, productivity in this country becomes a fight over industrial relations. With a bit of luck, this new review might bring to light issues that are less easily divided into Labor and Liberal. 