The British economy is “visibly uneven” and the government must develop an industrial policy that spreads wealth across the country, the new business, energy and industrial strategy secretary has said. In his first major speech to business leaders, Greg Clark said a successful industrial framework “has to be local” and warned that “for too long government policy has treated everywhere like it is identical”. In remarks that could be interpreted as a criticism of David Cameron and George Osborne’s leadership of the economy, Clark said: “In my view any successful industrial strategy has to be local.  “Governments are fond of quoting national figures – of economic growth, of productivity, of employment. But the truth is economic growth does not exist in the abstract. It happens in particular places when a business like yours is set up, or takes on more people, or expands its production.  “Yet for too long government policy has treated every place as if they were identical. Many of the policies and decisions that form our industrial strategy will not be about particular industries or sectors, but will be cross-cutting.”  Warning that the UK’s economic strength is geographically imbalanced, he said: “For all the assets and skills and reputation we have as a nation, for all of the astonishing economic progress we’ve made in this country, it is visibly uneven.” Clark also told the annual Institute of Directors convention in London that there has been “enough drama” in the UK over the last year amid the EU referendum, adding: “I want us to recover our reputation for stability and predictability as a business environment.” His comments provide in an insight into how Theresa May’s government will approach the economy and develop relationships with businesses. The previous business secretary, Sajid Javid, expressed his dislike for industrial strategies while the coalition government focused on working with certain sectors, such as the automotive and aerospace industries. Responding to Clark’s comments, John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor,said he wanted to see the minister’s rhetoric matched with action. He said: “Labour have long argued for investment in the regions and a new industrial strategy so Greg Clark’s change in rhetoric shows they are finally recognising the need for a change in their failed hands-off approach.” Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, said at the same conference that the government’s austerity measures had been a factor in the referendum result.   “There are many, many causes of the vote to leave the EU. For many people, they will have included entirely reasonable doubts and reservations about the EU. It is, after all, an imperfect organisation,” she said. “But in part, Brexit was a product of a sense of disenfranchisement and disillusionment. It was borne of inequality, of feelings of powerlessness – of austerity budgets which hurt the public services and social safety nets that so many people depend on.” Scotland’s leader also claimed there is “no meaningful mandate” for a hard Brexit that would involve Britain leaving the single market, adding that remain and leave campaigners had spoken of the benefits of free trade prior to the vote.  Sturgeon said there was a strong democratic justification for remaining part of the single market and that it was crucial for Scotland and the “least damaging outcome for individuals, communities and businesses across the whole of the UK”. In his opening remarks to the conference, Simon Walker, the director general of the IoD, made a dig at Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, who said earlier this month that British business leaders were lazy and preferred playing golf to agreeing export deals. Walker said: “I’m delighted to see so many of you here this morning, when – who knows? – you could so easily have been out on the golf course having a couple of rounds with Liam Fox.” The IoD boss also questioned whether the government should rescue the steel industry. “Will ‘industrial policy’ involve reskilling those who make bulk steel, so that they can move to sophisticated high tech products where Britain retains a competitive edge?” he said.  “Or will Britain simply block steel imports from China and pour funds into subsidising uncompetitive plants as a method of retaining jobs? “Down one path lies adapting to change – to thrive by finding new opportunities in the global marketplace. Down the other is stultifying bureaucracy, corporate protectionism and managed industrial decline.” 