Bicycle prices could be on the way up as a result of the Brexit vote, because the cost of importing bikes from Asia has surged. The Halfords boss, Jill McDonald, said the retailer was in talks with its suppliers following the pound’s fall. “For bikes bought in Asia in US dollars, we are seeing prices beginning to move,” she said. McDonald also said Halfords, which is the UK’s biggest bike seller, was better placed to push back against price increases than smaller outlets because 90% of the bikes it sells are own labels such as Apollo and Carrera. She said the company was working with its suppliers, and would also try to cut costs elsewhere in the business to offset the currency hit.  “It is a significant headwind, but I’m confident that over time we can mitigate. We want price to be the last place we go,” she said. Rivals that do not have own-brand bikes would likely raise prices when new models arrive at stores in the spring, she said. “For competitors who sell third-party brands we hear price increases are going through.”  Sterling has fallen by about 16% against the US dollar since the Brexit vote in June, pushing up sourcing costs for retailers who pay for goods in dollars. Several food and clothing retailers have predicted price rises next year as suppliers look to pass on the rising costs. Halfords buys about £200m of goods a year in dollars, with bikes sourced from countries including Taiwan, Cambodia and Vietnam, and the company has already been affected.  Profits for the six months to 30 September were down 12% at £40.8m, despite a 6% rise in sales to £567.3m. The fall reflected a £6m currency hit and the impact of discounting as rivals ran aggressive bike promotions over the summer. The retailer’s trading performance improved at the end of the summer, with bike sales boosted by tie-ups with Sir Bradley Wiggins and Laura Trott.  McDonald was hopeful that the recent cold snap boded well for its motoring business, which accounts for 70% of its sales. Sales of motoring items such as de-icer, headlight bulbs and batteries were dented last year by the unusually mild winter.  Halfords shares closed down nearly 7% at 320p as investors worried about the outlook for profits, given the exchange rate pressures. The shares hit a record high of 563p last summer.   