Dame Clara Furse, the former chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, is to be named as the chair of HSBC UK, the bank’s domestic retail arm which is being ringfenced from its other operations following new regulations in the wake of the financial crisis. The move, first reported by Sky News, is set to be confirmed as early as Tuesday.  The lender is relocating its UK high street operations to Birmingham as part of its effort to comply with new rules that require banks to insulate their high street customers from their investment banking arms. Furse is a high-profile appointment as HSBC attempts to address the lack of gender equality at the top of its operations by setting a target for equal numbers of women and men in senior roles in its UK arm. The new head office for its high street operations is due to be opened by 2019. HSBC UK also aims to achieve gender parity in the most senior of about 550 roles by 2020. The appointment is likely to lead to Furse stepping down from the Bank of England’s financial policy committee (FPC), which was set up to look for potential problems in the financial system. Furse was the first female member of the committee and has served for the past three years. Her appointment to the FPC proved controversial because of her previous role on the board of the bailed-out bank and insurance group Fortis, where she was a non-executive director and on the risk and capital committees when the Dutch-Belgian firm was involved in taking over ABN Amro – as part of a consortium with Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and Santander – during the 2007 credit crunch. Fortis ended up needing a state bailout, as did RBS. Furse said she deeply regretted the losses to shareholders, but that taxpayers in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg had not done too badly from the rescue.  She insisted the deal had floundered because of execution risk and not because of the quality of the assets, and that legal advice taken by Fortis had prevented the firm from pulling out of the deal. Even so, the Canadian-born Furse is perhaps best known in the City for her eight years as chief executive of the London Stock Exchange. During that spell she fended off a number of hostile takeover bids for the UK stock market, including advances from rivals including Nasdaq and Deutsche Börse. 