Philip Hammond is facing calls to dial back the autumn statement and return instead to a single budget speech each year. The Institute for Government, Institute for Fiscal Studies and Chartered Institute of Taxation have written to the chancellor with a list of recommendations to simplify the way tax policy is made in the UK That would include resisting the temptation to use the autumn statement to announce “a proliferation” of new fiscal measures, they say. Bringing to mind the climbdowns from Hammond’s predecessor, George Osborne, on a pasty tax and planned tax credit cuts, the groups are also calling for the consultation process for tax changes to begin at an earlier stage, “to avoid the surprises that lead to costly errors and embarrassing U-turns”. On budget speeches, the letter says: “The last two decades have seen a proliferation of measures in budgets and very long finance bills become the norm. In effect, we now have a March budget and a November/December budget. The time has come to revert to one principal fiscal policy event a year, while recognising there may still be a need for technical changes at other times of the year.” Chancellors have been required to deliver two economic updates a year since 1976. Over the years, the autumn statement morphed into the summer statement, before Gordon Brown introduced the pre-budget report – a decision reversed by Osborne. Hammond is due to deliver his first autumn statement in seven weeks, on 23 November. He has already talked about spreading economic gains more evenly and raised hopes that he will pare back the austerity drive of his predecessor when he presents his tax and spending plans. Jill Rutter, the Institute for Government’s programme director, says Hammond must cut the number of surprises in his budget statements, cut the number of new measures, and engage more with the public. “When she launched her leadership campaign, Theresa May said it was time to talk about tax,” said Rutter. “We agree, and the first thing we need to discuss is how to reform the budget process to make tax policy fit for post-Brexit Britain.” Tory ministers are also being urged to use their party’s conference to set out how they will improve the UK’s woeful productivity performance across low-paying industries. This is vital to eradicate working poverty and deliver on the prime minister’s pledge of a more equal Britain, campaigners say. Ahead of speeches by Hammond and the business secretary, Greg Clark, to the Birmingham conference under the banner “an economy that works for everyone”, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF) is warning politicians not to get swept up by the temptation to focus solely on high-value, eye-catching sectors.  It argues that by broadening plans for an industrial strategy to include low-paying parts of the economy such as retail, care and catering, the government can make greater economic gains and lift hundreds of thousands of people out of working poverty.  “Productivity is at the heart of higher living standards, tax receipts and growth, but focussing on high-value sectors alone will not ensure the economy works to benefit everyone,” said Ashwin Kumar, chief economist at the foundation. An analysis by JRF found that almost 1 million workers are trapped in in-work poverty in the retail, residential care and hotels and catering sectors – all parts of the economy where productivity lags behind rates for the economy as a whole.  The analysis defined people as being in working poverty if they were in work and living in a household with an income after housing costs of less than 60% of the UK average. Working poverty rates were found to be much higher in low-productivity sectors. Almost a quarter (24%) of workers in hotels and catering were in poverty, along with 18% in retail and 16% in residential care. For all other industries the average poverty rate was 11%. Experts disagree over the question of whether the UK’s poor productivity performance is a result of a reliance on low pay or whether low pay is a symptom of low productivity. But ministers and Bank of England policymakers have repeatedly warned that the UK must get to the bottom of its productivity problems to improve living standards. The country has consistently under-performed other big economies on productivity – usually measured as output for each hour worked. The gap with other countries has widened in recent years as productivity growth in the UK has stalled since the financial crisis, in what has become known as the UK’s productivity puzzle.  The foundation sees links between that poor productivity performance and the make-up of the UK economy. Low-pay sectors constitute about 23% of the UK economy, but account for around a third of the UK’s productivity gap with leading western European economies, the group found in an earlier analysis with the thinktank, the Institute for Public Policy Research [pdf]. It is calling on ministers to recognise the potential gains from making those sectors more efficient and urged them to work with businesses and trade unions to improve workers’ skills, career progression and pay. Kumar added: “Boosting the productivity of low-paid sectors will not only help the UK economy as a whole but will also enable sustainable increases in wages for many of those who feel that economic growth has passed them by.  “The ‘national living wage’ will help to some degree, but the government could go much further by making sure that national efforts to improve productivity do not ignore low-paid sectors,” he added, referring to new minimum wage rates for over-25s introduced in April. Business groups have largely welcomed a renewed focus on an industrial strategy by May’s government since she was swept to power in the wake of Britain’s vote to leave the EU. She has also received the cautious backing of campaigners for a fairer economy for her pledge to put social justice “at the heart” of her government. 