Thousands more flights between the UK and China could operate each year after a deal was struck in London to more than double the permitted number. The government said the move would boost tourism and trade opportunities for the UK, and create vital links for a post-Brexit Britain.  Up to 100 passenger flights a week each way will now be allowed, instead of 40, with no limit on cargo flights. Restrictions on destinations within each country have also been lifted.  The transport secretary, Chris Grayling, said it was a “big moment” for the UK: “Strong connections with emerging markets like China are vital for us if we are to continue competing on the global economic stage. Hundreds of thousands of Chinese people visit the UK every year, spending hundreds of millions of pounds.  “Raising the number of permitted flights between the two countries will provide massive opportunities for our businesses, helping increase trade, create jobs and boost our economy up and down the country.” Visits from China increased by 46% from 2014 to 2015 to almost 270,000, with Chinese tourists spending £586m.  Earlier this year, Manchester launched the first direct route between the UK and China from an airport outside of London. Charlie Cornish, chief executive of Manchester Airports Group, said the new agreement would boost the north, adding: “Passenger numbers on these services have exceeded expectations, with the flights between Beijing and Manchester operating 90% full over the summer.” The final decision on additional flights is a commercial one for airlines, which have not always found success in China. British Airways launched a daily route to the Chinese industrial centre of Chengdu from Heathrow in September 2012 but reduced the frequency in 2014 after disappointing ticket sales.  Adam Marshall, acting director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, saidthe latest move was an important step in encouraging investment: “Relaxing the rules on flights with China sends a positive signal to current and potential global trading partners.”  But, he added: “We need more aviation capacity in the UK for this to be effective. It is therefore vital that the government’s long-overdue decision on airport capacity in the south-east works to boost growth in both the near and long term.” 