Another high street retailer could join BHS on the scrapheap after the steepest slump in fashion sales since the financial crisis, a leading retail analysis firm has warned. Kantar Worldpanel said its latest figures showed that shoppers spent £700m less on clothing, shoes and accessories in the year to 25 September than they did during the previous 12 months. The period ended with four consecutive months of falling sales, the sharpest decline to hit the £36bn UK fashion market since 2009, when the banking crisis ravaged consumer confidence. Kantar said retailers had been hit by a combination of unseasonal weather and fragile consumer confidence caused by economic doom warnings around the Brexit vote. It forecast that retail sales could worsen next year when the closure of BHS, which accounted for about £400m of annual UK retail sales, is factored in. Kantar said the high street was in such a parlous state that another major retailer could yet follow the department store chain and close. “Only 10 of our top fashion retailers are worth more than the £700m which the market has lost, so this decline is equal to one of them disappearing from our high streets,” said Glen Tooke of Kantar. “Given the events of this summer this [the closure of another retailer] no longer seems impossible.” Kantar said it was not predicting the demise of a household name, but pointed out that conditions have made such an event more probable. Tooke also blamed the sales decline on “discount fatigue” – where by consumers were no longer impressed by sales – and on changing spending patterns as consumers chose to spend on evenings out instead of clothes. He added that while it was too early to assess the true impact of the EU referendum on retailers, the slump in sterling that followed the June 23 vote means further pain could be ahead. “If production costs are going up [owing to the weak pound] do you do something to control costs such as decreasing your quality?” said Tooke. “Do you absorb the cost yourself or do you pass it on to your consumers? None of that is an ideal solution. Price increases usually means volume of sales decreasing.” Retailers could be exacerbating weakness in the sector themselves, he said. “Rather than chasing after the same ‘micro trends’ as every one of their competitors, they need to work on understanding what their customers really want and to fulfil their needs. “It’s more about understanding what customers want rather than seeing a small pocket of the market that’s performing well and going after that. If you do that then everybody chases that one thing and loses their point of difference.” The Kantar figures are drawn from monitoring the spending patterns of 15,000 people and extrapolating them to give a broader picture of national habits. Recent sales figures released by some of the biggest companies in UK fashion retail appear to support Kantar’s gloomy outlook. High street bellwether Next reported a 0.3% increase in sales in the quarter to 30 July but saw profits fall. Its chief executive, Lord Wolfson, warned of tough times for the company and the wider industry. Several of the UK’s other fashion firms have been unable to arrest declining sales. Marks & Spencer had its biggest fall in clothing sales in 10 years earlier this summer, with sales in its fashion and homeware division plunging 8.9%. Primark said last month that sales in the year to mid-September were down 2%. The announcement came just a few months after it reported its first fall in half-year sales for 12 years. Debenhams reported a 0.2% decline in like-for-like sales in the third quarter, blaming shifting spending patterns that saw consumers splash out on holidays and restaurants. Retail sales bounced back in September after a weak August, according to the British Retail Consortium (BRC). But the industry body also warned of rising prices in shops owing to retailers’ higher import costs as sterling fell amid uncertainty over Britain’s future trade relationship with the European Union. The BRC called on the government to do everything it can to ensure that Brexit does not result in import tariffs being added to clothes arriving from the EU. 