Gaming group GVC said its £1.1bn purchase of rival Bwin after a takeover battle with 888 was going better than expected, and it plans to restart paying dividends to shareholders next year. The company said first half profits more than doubled from €21.8m to €51.3m, while the integration of Bwin would lead to annual savings of €125m by the end of 2017. Chief executive Kenneth Alexander said: We believe the organic growth potential of the group is now greater than originally anticipated at the time of the bwin.party transaction acquisition. It has also won a gaming licence in New Jersey, and signed a deal with sports betting group Betfred. Meanwhile finance director Richard Cooper is leaving in February to be replaced by Wonga’s Paul Miles. On the trading front it received a boost from a strong end to Euro 2016, while mobile betting jumped 55% in the half. Canaccord Genuity analysts said: Mobile sports wagers were up an impressive 55% year on year (and mobile gaming by 98%), and the group benefited from a favourable run of results - with a gross win margin up from 7.7% to 10.0%, albeit also benefiting from improvements to the trading platform It has been a period of considerable achievement for GVC. The acquisition of bwin.party has started well, with hard evidence of material revenue synergies coming through already, through more efficient marketing spend, improved VIP retention and a step up in the trading platform. In addition, the group pushed through its move to a premium listing (it joined the FTSE MidCap index this week), as well as the early agreement of a low-cost loan facility to replace its somewhat usurious Cerberus debt facility. Current trading remains strong, with revenues up by 12% in the first 11 weeks of the third quarter, or +15% on a constant currency basis, although management talks of increased marketing spend to exploit the revenue synergy opportunities from the deal. GVC has been significantly the strongest performer in the Online Gaming sector this year, up by 55% since the start of the year, or by 81% in the last 12 months. Nonetheless, it still trades on a discount valuation, on a 2017F EV/Ebitda of 9.6 times and 12.8 times PE. We raise our TP from 720p to 755p, representing a 10.0 times EV/Ebitda, versus the 10.5 times peer group average (reflecting higher unregulated revenues). Buy. Alistair Ross at Investec is also a buyer: GVC is one of the best performers in the FTSE 250, with its shares up 3.5% at 747p. Also moving higher is TalkTalk. The telecoms group has climbed 10.6p to 307.6p after analysts at Redburn moved from sell to neutral, saying the company could be a possible takeover target. 