Work to electrify key branch lines on rail routes to Oxford and Bristol has been suspended, the government has announced. The troubled programme has been beset by delays and cost overruns, with its budget trebling to £2.8bn.  Although a review of the work by Network Rail in 2015 led to the project being replanned on a “more efficient footing”, on Tuesday the rail minister, Paul Maynard, announced that four parts of the programme would be indefinitely “deferred”. These are electrification of tracks between Oxford and Didcot Parkway, between Bath Spa and Bristol Temple Meads, between Bristol Temple Meads and the city’s Parkway station, and of the Thames Valley branch lines to Henley and Windsor. The move came the morning before a critical report from the National Audit Office, which warned that there remained significant risks in the Great Western modernisation programme, including problems with information and management.  The NAO said that delays of up to three years in the work would leave the Department for Transport with an estimated £330m bill to cover new trains and lost income. The DfT has had to purchase more expensive trains which can run under both diesel and electric power, and will also have to indirectly cover the train operating company’s higher running costs and lower revenue. It said the full cost of modernising the Great Western route, including infrastructure work alongside the £2.8bn electrification, was £5.6bn, and warned that the escalating budget meant that the DfT should consider whether the rest of the works would represent value for money.  The electrification is expected to be rescheduled for some time before 2024, potentially allowing other engineering work to be conducted alongside it, although details of funding have not been agreed between Network Rail and the DfT.  The government said it was continuing to invest £2.8bn in electrification, suggesting that the overall budget may have risen further. Maynard said the route modernisation was “an ambitious and challenging undertaking, but real progress is being made in delivering it”, including upgrades to signalling, the modification of more than 100 bridges and structures, and work on the Severn Tunnel. But he added: “We have been clear that there have been difficulties with this programme.” The difficulties were set out last year in a review of Network Rail’s delivery plan by its chairman, Sir Peter Hendy, although the review did not call for these specific projects to be postponed.  Maynard said the deferrals had been made “because we can bring in the benefits expected by passengers – newer trains with more capacity – without requiring costly and disruptive electrification works”. He said it would provide £146m to £165m for other improvements, and added: “We remain committed to modernising the Great Western main line and ensuring that passenger benefits are achieved.” Labour said it was “yet another example of a broken Tory promise on rail”. Andy McDonald, the shadow transport secretary, said: “These electrification works have seen their cost triple and have now been shelved twice, with businesses and commuters being made to pay the price for the government’s incompetence. “It is unacceptable for ministers to renege on promises to deliver electrification of lines time and time again. The secretary of state must reverse this decision and make clear that the government will keep to their word and deliver the upgrades as planned.” Mark Langman, Network Rail’s western route managing director, said: “The Great Western main line is undergoing a huge rail investment programme to enable new and upgraded trains with more seats and faster, greener journeys. The changes announced today will deliver those benefits to the greatest number of passengers in the shortest possible time. The programme remains complex and challenging but good progress is being made.”  In a Commons debate on Monday night, Maynard refused to repeat pledges that the full Midland main line programme would be delivered by 2023, after local MPs including the Conservatives’ Nicky Morgan sought assurances.  