Aldi and Lidl have sunk to their slowest growth rate since 2011 as Tesco almost doubled its pace of expansion. The UK’s biggest supermarket gained market share for the second month in a row as sales rose by 2.2% in the 12 weeks to 6 November, up from 1.3% reported last month, making it the only one of the big four chains in growth, according to the latest data from Kantar Worldpanel. Tesco increased market share to 28.2%, up from 27.9% a year ago. Aldi and Lidl continued to be the fastest expanding grocers in the market. But their growth slid to 11.4% and 8.4% respectively, according to Kantar. Some analysts believe sales in the chains’ established stores are flat or even down on last year. Fraser McKevitt, head of retail and consumer insight at Kantar, said the discounters were being hit as they were now up against very strong rates of growth a year ago, while Tesco’s resurgence had made life more difficult. He said Tesco was selling bigger volumes of fresh meat and produce after cutting prices and introducing its cheaper own-label Farm Brands ranges. Its premium Tesco Finest range also increased by 6% over the period. UK discounter Iceland, which had previously been under pressure from the rise of its German rivals, has also found a way to fight back more effectively. Its sales were up 8.3% as increased seafood ranges and tie-ups with Slimming World and Pizza Express paid off. Meanwhile, action by Tesco, Asda, Morrisons and Sainsbury’s to cut prices has drawn the discounters into the price war. “Aldi and Lidl haven’t let their price differential [to the major supermarket chains] slip and so they have been cutting prices which has slowed their growth down,” said McKevitt. The price war prompted yet another month of deflation, with prices across the market down an average 0.5%. However that is the slowest pace of deflation since October 2014. and McKevitt said: “We’re likely to see inflation in December.” Mike Watkins, UK head of retailer and business insight at analysis firm Nielsen, which also found that Aldi and Lidl had slipped to its slowest pace of growth since 2011, said grocers had yet to see any impact from Brexit. “Shoppers are still spending freely and we’ve seen a return of sustainable growth in the volume of items people are buying, helped by industry-wide price cuts,” he said. 