BHS is poised to make a comeback as an online retailer just one month after the brand closed its last remaining high-street store. The business will be relaunched on Thursday, selling lighting and home furnishing products before adding clothing lines and kitchen and dining ranges over the coming weeks. BHS collapsed into administration in April, leading to the loss of about 11,000 jobs and leaving a pension deficit of £571m. BHS.com will be a smaller operation, with just 84 employees based in London and fewer products initially on offer. It will focus on former BHS bestsellers, such as bedding and lighting, and by November new clothing ranges will be available. The online business is owned by the Al Mana Group, a Qatari conglomerate that created BHS International when it bought the BHS brand, BHS.com and the retailer’s international operations in June. It will be run by David Anderson, the former head of international at BHS, who said the new business would “be nimble and efficient”. Commenting on the the brand’s relaunch in Britain, Anderson said he was not ruling out opening new stores in the future. “What I’ve got to do is look forward. This is a new business. It’s an iconic British brand, steeped in history. We want to focus on that and move forward. Will we ever be international online or go back to bricks and mortar? Who knows? In retail you can’t rule anything out, it’s ever-changing. “Although we are starting again in the UK, we have a number of advantages over a typical startup. We are nimble and efficient, but with a great brand, strong customer base and a proven and dedicated team.”  Most of the 84-strong workforce is made up of former BHS workers, and Anderson said he hoped to employ more people once the business was established. “Nearly everybody has worked with us before. We’re trying to create jobs. We’ve got to make sure what we’re building is on strong foundations: we’re not going to rush into this. As we grow, I do want to be able to recruit more people, especially former BHS workers.” Prices will be “the same or lower” than they were previously according to Anderson, who said there would be fewer promotions in the future. “There will be the odd promotion, but not the spectaculars and mega days that the old business used to do,” he said. Anderson said BHS clothing was previously targeted at customers aged 45 or older, whereas its new ranges would be aimed at those aged 35 and older. He said the clothing ranges were all newly selected, with a focus on collections and “a lot more style”. The new website has also been started from scratch. “It’s going to be much cleaner and uncluttered,” Andersen said. Richard Hyman, an independent retail analyst, said BHS was making a comeback at a challenging time for the UK retail industry. “The UK market is entering the most turbulent, challenging moment in its history. A major determinant of success in this market will be how retailers deal with change – simply doing things in the old way won’t work any more. “BHS International knows it has to focus only on those parts of the old BHS that worked, and to edit and reposition the product offering. The market emerging will be tough but BHS has been able to choose the cards it holds going forward, and that will be a key advantage it can leverage.” Anderson joined BHS from Marks & Spencer in 2009 as a regional manager, before being appointed retail and marketing director and then international director. The last 22 BHS stores closed at the end of August, bringing the curtain down the retailer’s 88-year history, which began with a store in Brixton, south London. While all of the shops have closed, the issue over the huge pension deficit has yet to be resolved. Sir Philip Green, who sold BHS for £1 little more than a year before the retailer went bust, said earlier this month that he was working on a solution “on a daily basis” for the company’s 20,000 pensioners. However, MPs investigating the collapse of the retailer – which Green had sold to Dominic Chappell, a former bankrupt with no retail experience – have expressed frustration at the lack of progress.  Despite BHS’s struggles, the international and online divisions were considered the best-performing parts of the retailer, and were still profitable when the department store chain collapsed. The relaunched business has not inherited the pension liabilities of the former group. As well as Anderson, the Al Mana Group retained Sara Bradley, buying director, and Dave West, head of creative, from the former business. 