It has become one of the most eagerly awaited moments of the festive calendar, sparking weeks of Christmas-themed marketing that tugs on the heartstrings and prises open the wallets of millions of Britons. But annual excitement about the John Lewis Christmas ad was given a false start this weekend when hundreds of thousands of people were fooled into watching a teenager’s A-level coursework masquerading as the retailer’s 2016 short film. The clip, which was just over a minute long, had all the elements of the beloved annual tear-jerker: lonely snow man, heart-tugging music, a calendar marking the days till Christmas, and subtle hint that true happiness can come only through buying and delivering gifts. Viewed more 375,000 times on YouTube by Sunday evening, the advert was produced by Nick Jablonka, an A-level media student, who had studied the mini-movies for his coursework. “It was a very rushed piece, I’ve left it till the last month to do it … Creating a short film is a lot of work especially when it’s CGI. I was responsible for things outside of my comfort zone like character animation and lighting,” he said. His work is already beating some of this year’s genuine Christmas ads. This year’s House of Fraser version, with music by Laura Mvula, had clocked up fewer than a third as many views on YouTube. Many of his viewers suggested that John Lewis should recruit him. Last year’s genuine campaign – the lonely man on the moon, following the 2014 penguin and the 2013 double act of the bear and the hare – took nearly 12 months and £1m to make, with another £6m spent buying advertising slots.  The student’s parody follows a similar theme to previous ads, featuring a lonely snowman reminiscing about times with a snowwoman love interest, before being reunited. It features Follow You Follow Me by Vapor feat. Adaline as the score.  This year’s official John Lewis ad is expected to launch on Thursday 10 November and is said to have cost £7m.     Aldi, which made a parody of the Man in the Moon ad last year and was then caught out overstating the price of the John Lewis telescope compared with its version, is believed to be behind a mysterious campaign for Kevin the Carrot popping up on social media. Kevin tweeted on Monday: “Orange is the new ‘Man on the Moon’.” Jablonka hasn’t revealed his production costs, but UK companies are believed to be spending a record £5.6bn this year, with Burberry’s ad particularly ambitious, running to three minutes, directed by Oscar winner Asif Kapadia, and with stars including Sienna Miller, Dominic West and Lily James. The big stores and companies hope to pull in a quarter of their entire annual profits over the Christmas period. Jablonka’s ad also proved profitable: “As far as I remember I think it got full marks.” 