BHS will close the doors on its last 22 stores for the final time on Sunday, 88 years after the retailer opened for business as an affordable general store in Brixton. When it has packed up what’s left on the racks of slippers, cardigans and dresses aimed at value-conscious shoppers, the last of the department store’s once 11,000-strong workforce will be made redundant. By summer bank holiday Monday, they will be jobless. As they pick up final pay cheques, some will no doubt be pondering the role of former owner Sir Philip Green – currently luxuriating off the coast of Italy on his brand new £100m super yacht – in their predicament. Most will be hoping that Green will honour his promise to “sort” the BHS pension fund, currently more than £571m in deficit and heading for the pensions lifeboat, meaning that members will have to take a 10% cut in the benefits they had expected. But it’s not only the staff who will be left high and dry by the collapse of BHS, which went into administration in April, little more than a year after Green sold the 170 stores for £1 to a group of inexperienced and unknown entrepreneurs led by former bankrupt Dominic Chappell. The demise of the department store, the biggest retail failure since Woolworths in 2009, will leave gaping holes in struggling high streets and shopping centres across the country where the department store’s large shops were once a major draw. Many communities will be hoping that the end of BHS will mark a chance for revival as its neglected and now dowdy stores have a chance of being replaced by more vital and fashionable brands. Some locals – in towns like Romford – are actively campaigning to attract chains like John Lewis, Primark or Zara. Primark and Sports Direct are expected to take a handful of stores each, while Zara, Poundworld, Wilko and H&M are all in talks to take a few outlets. Ikea, Decathlon, Dunelm and Go Outdoors may also use former BHS sites as a chance to experiment with smaller high-street ventures. It’s not clear if the BHS brand will disappear altogether from the UK. The online store, which was bought by a Qatari firm, along with the BHS brand name and international business, currently says it will be reopening for business this autumn. Property firms Savills and CBRE, which are advising on the BHS disposals, are thought to have concluded deals on about a quarter of the sites. Administrator Duff & Phelps recovered at least £22.5m from landlords by surrendering the leases on BHS’s Manchester, Brighton and Milton Keynes stores to their landlords, according to trade journal Estates Gazette. Primark is already trading in the former BHS store in Fosse Park, Leicester, and has confirmed it will be moving into the Llandudno site. BHS’s flagship Oxford Street store in London will be converted into the first outlet for Polish retailer Lubianiec Piechocki i Partnerzy (LPP). But property experts believe that it could take years for some BHS branches to find new occupiers. It took about three years for the majority of Woolworths’ 800 stores to find new occupiers after it went bust, according to independent retail consultant Graham Soult, who has toured the country cataloguing the fate of the chain’s outlets. About four, including the one on Margate high street, are still empty seven years on. Soult points out things are likely to be more difficult for BHS, partly because of the large size of its branches but also as a result of a tougher business climate in which retailers are closing stores as shoppers switch to buying online. He adds: “It’s also tougher partly because of Woolworths’ demise. Many retailers used that to plug the gaps in their portfolio.” Will Thomas of retail property consultancy KLM believes 15% to 20% – or about 33 BHS stores – are likely to be very difficult to shift. “It is quite an obsolete portfolio. BHS hasn’t really kept up with the fashions and retail pitches have moved away from its stores. In many locations, it is really the last store in town and not attractive to many,” he says. More than a decade of underinvestment means that many branches will require major refurbishment, including the removal of asbestos, which could cost up to £500,000 per store. With little demand for the average 45,000sq ft stores BHS occupied, many branches are likely to be divided up in the same way that former C&A outlets were split to house shops including Zara, Primark and New Look. Extensive upper floors, once used for stock rooms, staff canteens and managers’ offices, are likely to be even trickier to deal with. Most retailers are now more efficient and don’t need such large backroom areas, so upper floors may have to be redeveloped as gyms, homes or separate office space. That’s not so attractive for local authorities, which receive much lower business rates from such uses, according to Thomas. But he says: “These stores are just too big for most retailers’ requirements.” At least one former BHS – Ealing – has already been sold for redevelopment into residential properties in a controversial £10m deal involving former owner Green’s son-in-law, Brett Palos. Even if stores do find new retail occupants, that offers little hope for BHS staff being laid off this weekend. If the business had been sold as a going concern, they could have transferred to the new owners and stayed in work. Now they must hit the jobcentre. John Hannett, general secretary of shopworkers’ union Usdaw, says: “This weekend marks the end of BHS, as the remaining staff go through the difficult and heartbreaking task of dismantling stores that many of them have been in for most of their working lives. Wherever the blame lies for the demise of this once great British retailer, it certainly is not with the staff, who are paying a high price for corporate decisions that have led us to where we are today. “Sir Philip Green needs to honour the two promises he made to BHS staff and pensioners after the company went into administration. Firstly, to offer employment within the Arcadia Group to the blameless, dedicated and loyal staff who suddenly find themselves unemployed. Secondly, to ‘sort’ the pension scheme. We are stilling waiting to hear the details of what he proposes.” Sir Philip GreenThe billionaire former owner of BHS is currently on his new 295ft yacht Lionheart off the coast of Italy. He’s still in discussions with the pension regulator about his potential contribution to the £571m pension deficit, most of which was built up during his tenure. Two weeks ago, the billionaire reacted angrily when a Sky News reporter took a water taxi out to his yacht – which was then moored off the Greek coast – to ask questions about BHS. He refused to answer and later, in port, threatened to call the police, lunged for the camera and shouted: “That’s going in the fucking sea.” Darren ToppThe former BHS chief executive is currently on a cycling holiday in the UK after finishing assisting administrators at the end of June. Topp, who told MPs that Chappell had threatened to kill him after he accused the entrepreneur of theft from the company, says he is taking time out before looking for a new job. Lord GrabinerThe former chairman of Green’s Arcadia Group was described by MPs as the “apogee of weak corporate governance”. He is still a working QC and was recently involved in Guys Hands’s abandoned £1.5bn lawsuit against Citigroup over the ill-fated £4.2bn takeover of EMI. 