Shares in housebuilders have risen after Persimmon, the biggest company in the sector, said the UK vote to leave the EU has not put off potential homebuyers. Announcing first-half results, Persimmon said trading since the 23 June referendum had been strong and that after a short period of wariness customer interest had increased from a year earlier.  Along with other housebuilders, Persimmon’s shares fell after the referendum result amid fears that falling consumer confidence and an economic slowdown would dent the housing market. Countrywide, Britain’s biggest estate agent, predicted this week that average prices would fall 1% next year before rising again. Nicholas Wrigley, Persimmon’s chairman, said: “While the result of the EU referendum has created increased uncertainty, the news was quickly digested by our customers. Customer interest since then has been robust with a strengthening of visitor numbers to our sites compared to the same period last year.” Customer cancellations for viewings rose slightly in the week following the referendum but they are now running slightly lower than a year ago, Wrigley added.  After dropping 37% on 24 June to £13.10, Persimmon shares have regained most of the loss and were the biggest risers in the FTSE 100 following its upbeat statement, rising almost 5% to £18.77 in early trading. Rival housebuilders Taylor Wimpey, Barratt and Berkeley were also among the index’s top 10 gainers. Persimmon’s pre-tax profit rose 29% to £352m in the six months to the end of June as revenue rose 12% to 1.3bn. Housebuilders have boomed over the past few years supported by rising prices, economic growth and the government’s help-to-buy scheme. Finance director Mike Killoran said that after the traditionally quiet summer months Persimmon expected business to pick up in the autumn and that potential customers had their finances in place to buy. Killoran added: “Given the interest we are seeing on the sites from visitor traffic and people genuinely wanting to buy we can see no reason why we wouldn’t see that [autumn] seasonality continue. All the feedback we are getting from sites is that given the market we are in and the product we are offering … there is a great desire to buy.” 