Cross Country rail passengers have been promised more seats and faster journeys after Arriva retained the contract to run the franchise until October 2019. The operator has been set “tough” targets for punctuality and reliability on Cross Country services, which run from Aberdeen to Penzance, Bournemouth to Manchester and Stansted to Birmingham, among other routes. The Department for Transport (DfT) said there would be an additional 39,000 seats per year at peak times along the Edinburgh to Plymouth route through Leeds, Birmingham and Bristol by December 2017. Journey times from Birmingham to Manchester are to be cut by nine minutes on weekdays and 12 minutes at weekends. The government is investing £20m in upgrading Cross Country trains and said passengers will get free Wi-Fi by April 2018. Arriva, which is owned by Germany’s Deutsche Bahn, also operates Chiltern Railways and Grand Central services, as well as trains in Wales. The rail minister, Paul Maynard, said: “We are making the biggest investment in the railways since the Victorian era and today is a key milestone in giving passengers better journeys right across the Cross Country network. “The franchise, which spans parts of England, Scotland and Wales, serves commuters and long-distance passengers, and these benefits from Arriva Cross Country will deliver extra and smoother journeys for customers using these services.” The DfT said Arriva Cross Country will pay the government a premium of £163m to operate the franchise. Arriva has also pledged to develop a mobile app, remove a £10 fee for changing advance tickets and run extra trains to Morpeth, Northumberland. The Arriva Cross Country managing director, Andy Cooper, said: “We are delighted to have the opportunity to deliver even more for our customers over the next three years through this new agreement. “Satisfaction is the theme for the range of investments we will be making, with better, faster journeys with more seats and free Wi-Fi. We will also be looking to our customers for feedback.” • This article was amended on 29 September 2016 to clarify that the additional 39,000 seats are per year. 