Jean-Claude Juncker has called on former EU commissioner Neelie Kroes to explain why she failed to declare a directorship in an offshore firm, amid calls to tighten up the union’s ethics code. The European commission president “is seeking clarification” from Kroes after it emerged she had failed to report a directorship at a United Arab Emirates-funded venture during her time in Brussels, a spokesman for Juncker said on Thursday. The spokesman said the commission will decide on the next steps and actions once all the facts were known. “We have very strict rules in place and it is important that these rules are respected by all those who have the honour to serve as members of the college [of commissioners].” All European commissioners are obliged to declare outside interests, stretching back 10 years.  Kroes, the veteran Dutch liberal politician, served as commissioner for two terms from 2004-2014, initially with the powerful role of competition watchdog, before taking charge of the EU’s high-profile digital agenda.  During that time, she failed to declare she was a director of a Bahamas company set up to buy the international assets of energy firm Enron in a $7bn venture funded by United Arab Emirates families.  Lawyers for Kroes have admitted she should have declared the directorship in Mint Holdings Ltd, an unpaid post she held for more than nine years between 2000-09. They say she made her declaration in good faith and omitted the information from her list of previous posts because the deal with Enron collapsed and the company, Mint Holdings Limited, never became operational. The disclosure came to light following an investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists into a trove of unseen documents leaked from the Bahamas corporate registry. Kroes was one name among many from the files, which listed directors and shareholders at nearly 176,000 shell companies, trusts and foundations. After being approached by journalists, lawyers for Kroes wrote to Juncker at the end of last week, but their email was not spotted until Wednesday. The European commission president has written to Kroes and “there is clearly an expectation that this should be followed up very quickly”, one source said. A lawyer for Kroes said: “The President of the European commission this morning has written to Mrs Kroes requesting further details about her directorship of Mint Holdings Ltd. Mrs Kroes will reply to this letter as soon as possible. Mrs Kroes understands that the president needs further information to asses the situation.” The EU commission also said it was looking into whether any of the decisions that Kroes had taken as competition commissioner had touched upon Mint Holdings. The former commissioner became known as “Steelie Neelie” for taking on former state-owned energy companies, as well as multinationals including Microsoft. The revelations are damaging for the commission, which is still grappling with the outcry over former commission president José Manuel Barroso’s decision to join Goldman Sachs to advise their clients on Brexit. If Kroes is found to have breached the EU’s code of conduct – which requires commissioners to behave with “integrity and discretion” – she could be stripped of her right to an EU pension and may have to repay a generous transitional allowance granted to all commissioners once they leave office. Kroes is 75, but does not currently receive an EU pension. Kroes is entitled to just under €460,000 (£395,000), depending on how much she is earning from jobs in the private sector. Depending on length of service, commissioners are allowed to claim up to 65% of their final basic salary after leaving Brussels. They have an initial cooling-off period of 18 months during which time they must seek permission before taking a job in the private sector – but the transitional allowance is paid for three years. Kroes has also attracted controversy by joining the advisory board of technology group Uber, accepting an advisory role at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and becoming a full board member at US corporation Salesforce. In order to secure her job as competition commissioner in 2004, Kroes undertook to never again take a post in the private sector. Challenged on why Kroes, now 75, had gone back on her promise, her lawyer said: “It is true that Mrs Kroes made this pledge at the beginning of her first term with the European commission. Having fulfilled this term, Mrs Kroes fulfilled this pledge and did not enter into business activity. Instead, she was honoured with a second term in a completely different field. Having now finished her second term, she no longer feels bound by the commitment made prior to taking her first post.”  Any decision on pensions or allowances would require a decision by the European court of justice, following a referral by the commission. However, Carl Dolan, European director of the campaign group Transparency International, said: “These are breaches of social norms so there should be social sanctions. In cases like Kroes’ where it is clear the rules have been broken, it should be made clear they are not welcome in the institutions. There should be no rolling out the red carpet, no invitations to be a keynote speaker at conferences, they should not be welcome as lobbyists.” The EU ombudsman, Emily O’Reilly, said the Kroes case raised “serious concerns about the current capacity of the commission’s code of conduct effectively to monitor the private sector interests of commissioners and to enforce sanctions if necessary”. She called on the commission to strengthen its code of conduct, which sets the ground rules for ethical standards that current and former commissioners should observe. The commission spokesman did not support calls to update the code, saying: “The commission must be able to trust in the accuracy and completeness of the information provided by the commissioners. “There are certain things that even the strictest rules, like ours, cannot fix,” he added. “This was the case of our former president who made the choice to go to work for a certain bank and this is now the case of a former commissioner, who apparently did not respect the rules, and apparently did not inform the commission.” Speaking more widely about the revelations from the Bahamas corporate registry, Pierre Moscovici, the European commissioner for taxation, described them as “the latest proof of the enormous scale of global tax avoidance and evasion”. He stepped up calls for EU member states to agreed an EU blacklist of tax havens by 2017, with “strong and viable sanctions for countries that refuse to play by the book” and “provide a hiding-place for untaxed wealth”. 