Workers on Virgin Trains East Coast will stage a 24-hour strike next week in a row over jobs and conditions, and members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport union will walk out on 3 October. The union suspended industrial action in the summer, but the dispute remains unresolved. The RMT’s general secretary, Mick Cash, said: “RMT will not sit back while nearly 200 members’ jobs are under threat and while conditions and safety are put at risk by a franchise which is clearly in financial trouble. “The union suspended an earlier programme of action when it looked like serious progress was being made in talks, but that process has now failed to reach a satisfactory conclusion and we are back into industrial action as a result. “We have been shocked at the way the company have led us up the garden path when we entered talks in good faith. Our representatives are rightly angry at this cavalier approach.” Virgin Trains East Coast said it would run a full timetable during the strike. David Horne, its managing director, said services would not be affected during the walkouts or any subsequent RMT strikes. “With our guarantees that there will be no compulsory redundancies, no impact on safety and a full timetable in place during the walkouts, these strikes will cost RMT members pay for no reason, and we urge the union to rejoin us around the negotiating table,” he said.  Virgin said proposed changes would have no impact on safety and improve the experience for customers.  The RMT said: “Those staff remaining will be expected to cover the work of the deleted posts, piling intolerable pressure on all sections of the workforce.” The union is also embroiled in industrial action with the company that operates Southern trains. Its rail workers will strike for 14 days in five separate blocks from next month in the long-running dispute over the role of conductors. The strikes could leave commuters on the Southern network, which connects towns on the south coast with London, facing more travel disruption after earlier strikes during the summer.  The company plans to make drivers responsible for closing train doors, something that already happens on many services across the country, but which is the conductor’s role on Southern. The union says the change by the operating company Govia Thameslink Railway is a precursor to the removal of safety-trained guards from services, which it says would put passengers’ safety and security at risk. 