It’s astonishing. British governments have fiddled for a decade with the terms and structure of the Hinkley Point deal. The proposed agreement runs to thousands of pages, as you would expect with an £18bn contract to build the first new nuclear power station in the UK for a generation. Yet nobody seems to have considered what would happen if EDF, an over-indebted outfit over-reliant on the goodwill of current and future French politicians, ever wanted to sell Hinkley. Theresa May’s review is a let-down on the central question of whether the Hinkley Point C project should proceed; she should have binned the project because the technology was unproven and the financial terms a rip-off. But she has addressed the question of future ownership. The UK government will be able to block EDF from selling its stake before and after construction. Similar powers will be secured in future by the UK government taking a special share in infrastructure projects deemed critical to the nation’s security. This is welcome and overdue. Before the clause was inserted, it would have been possible, in theory, for EDF to sell its majority stake in Hinkley to its Chinese co-financiers, the state-backed CGN firm. Overnight, 7% of the UK’s energy supply could have been in the hands of a country with a long and dishonourable history of cyber espionage. David Cameron and George Osborne, as they conducted their love-in with Beijing in recent years, ignored the worry in their desperation to find a new partner for EDF after Centrica, the owner of British Gas, dropped out of the Hinkley consortium in 2013. The energy select committee, shamefully, also danced around the subject of national security. May deserves some credit for addressing it. The Brexit vote, incidentally, may have strengthened her hand. The EU tends to hate golden shares. Outside the club, it should be easier for the UK to adopt stronger protection over ownership of critical infrastructure. But the government is overstating matters when it says the UK’s policy will now fall into line with other big economies. The US imposes far stricter restrictions on foreign ownership of nuclear plants on its soil. That is why, one assumes, the Chinese appear happy to accept May’s “significant new safeguards”. For Beijing, the big prize has always been the chance to gain international recognition for Chinese technology by building a nuclear power station in Bradwell, Essex, to its own design. That prospect is still alive. But let’s hope May’s brief probe of Hinkley heralds a deeper rethink on the UK’s entire nuclear programme. On cost and design, the adventure has lost touch with common sense. First, cost. Hinkley, as everybody knows by now, is hideously expensive. If it were up and running today, EDF and CGN would be receiving annual revenues of £2.8bn, calculates Peter Atherton, of Cornwall Energy. But only £1.2bn would represent the market price of the electricity produced. The rest, £1.6bn, would be a top-up payment ultimately paid by the public. The figure is large but, if it were a one-off, perhaps tolerable. The UK’s 27m households use about 40% of the country’s energy. Crunch the numbers and a theoretical “Hinkley subsidy” works out to about £24 per household a year at current prices.  The problem, of course, is that Hinkley in north Somerset is not a one-off. It will provide about 3,200MW of capacity. The government’s decarbonisation programme envisages up to 18,000MW of nuclear capacity by 2035. If Hinkley-style handouts are repeated, you’re talking serious money for consumers and a big hit to the competitiveness of UK industry. That risk is real because of the second issue: the madness of a nuclear new-build programme in which all are invited to pitch. It’s not just China that wants to bring its kit – Japanese, South Korean and US firms are also on the ticket for new plants. The UK could end up building four different reactor designs from five different manufacturers. That is inherently more expensive than picking the best design, replicating it and harvesting economies of scale. The UK’s approach, argues Atherton, is “the equivalent of having the four new Trident nuclear subs built in different shipyards to different designs”. It’s too late, it seems, to stop Hinkley. But May should order a rethink of the rest of the UK’s nuclear plan. It’s a badly designed mess that no other country would copy. 