Two US banks – Citi and JP Morgan – have been designated as potentially posing the greatest risks to the global financial system in an annual ranking by regulators. Citi has replaced HSBC and joined JP Morgan in the highest ranking issued by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), an international alliance of central bankers, policy makers and regulators that sorts 30 major banks into five categories. The more systemically important the bank, the more capital it must hold to absorb losses during time of crisis. No bank has ever been placed in the highest, fifth category – which adds 3.5 percentage points to a bank’s capital requirement – since the FSB rankings were introduced five years. Citi and JP Morgan are in the fourth category. HSBC, Britain’s biggest bank, has been moved out of the fourth category for the first time to the third, reducing the top up to its capital by half a percentage point to 2%. Barclays has also had its status cut by one category, from the third to the less risky second bracket. Citi is among three US banks which have been pushed up the rankings: the other two are Bank of America and Wells Fargo. The rising importance of Chinese banks is also illustrated as Industrial and Commercial Bank of China has moved up one ranking.  Tomas Kinmonth, a fixed income strategist at ABN Amro, said the changes reflected the revised business models of some of the banks. “The European and UK banks are both retrenching and are trying to return to their core businesses. Thus the lowering of Barclays within the ranking comes partly as the bank moves to focus just on the American and European markets,” said Kinmonth.  “Counterintuitively, a decrease in the systematic importance of the banks can actually be a positive for the institution. The bank can be expected to have less equity set aside, and can in theory allow them to return more proceeds to existing shareholders,” he said. HSBC has also been scaling back its global presence – it recently sold its operations in Brazil – and also reducing its exposure to risky loans.  Deutsche Bank, which was described by the International Monetary Fund as the world’s riskiest bank, remained in the third category – where HSBC, Bank of America and French bank BNP Paribas also reside – requiring it to top up its capital by two percentage points. Deutsche was in the fourth category in 2012. The FSB is chaired by Bank of England governor Mark Carney. Its role is to act a body coordinating policy towards the financial services sector around the world and monitor and assess vulnerabilities affecting the global financial system. It is playing a key role in trying to end the “too big too fail” problem that was highlighted by the 2008 banking crisis. Assessing the so-called globally systemic banks – known as “G-Sibs” – is part of its role.  The banks are unlikely to need to raise more capital as many of them ready hold enough to appease regulatory demands. A list of the globally systemic insurers was also published, which includes Prudential and Aviva.  