Deliveroo’s chief executive has apologised for allowing a dispute with his riders to escalate after the government intervened at the weekend. Deliveroo has been at odds with its couriers in London over changes to terms that riders said would significantly reduce their earnings. The plan prompted hundreds to protest against an attempt to pay them for each delivery instead of an hourly rate. The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy stepped in on Sunday to say that workers must be paid the “national living wage” of £7.20 an hour unless a court or HMRC rules that they are self-employed.  William Shu, Deliveroo’s co-founder and chief executive, said that under the old pay plan of £7 an hour plus £1 per delivery, riders made £9.20 to £9.30 an hour not including tips, and that he expected them to earn more under the new arrangement, which pays £3.75 per delivery.  He said, however, that riders could choose to stick with the terms of the old plan. Deliveroo has said the new plan is a trial and applies to only 280 of its 3,000 riders in London. “I’m very sorry things have gone to this point. Our riders are the lifeblood of our business and without them we are nothing,” Shu told the BBC’s Today programme.  The new pay plan “is in response to our riders’ number-one concern, which is flexibility … This was a choice for them. If the riders choose to be on a new scheme that’s great … If riders feel like it’s not for them, they can choose to work on the old scheme as well.” There appeared to be confusion over the options for riders who want to stay on the same terms. A blog on the firm’s website said it had “offered them the choice to stick with the current fee model if they prefer”.  An email sent to workers, however, said that to opt out of the trial they would need to work in a different part of London.  It also offered guaranteed minimum payments for the first month of the new structure. At peak hours at the weekend it will guarantee riders receive at least £11.25 an hour plus tips and petrol, but between 2.30pm and 6.30pm each day and after 10pm it will pay £3.75 per delivery. The firm said that those signing up to the trial would need to sign up to new terms and conditions in their contracts. Riders said that to opt out they would have to move to a new delivery area, which could mean earning less money through the £1-a-delivery commission. Margaret Dewhurst from the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain (IWGB), said: “Riders have spent time building up their patch. They’ve been learning their areas for two or three years. Changing zone will mean moving somewhere central which they don’t know, so they will end up doing fewer deliveries.” A rider picketing outside the firm’s recruitment office in north London on Monday told the Guardian that moving riders to zones outside the trial would mean “those zones are flooded so you will get fewer hours”. Deliveroo delivers food from thousands of restaurants that do not have their own delivery service, charging the customers £2.50 per delivery. Its clients include Pizza Express, Byron and Gourmet Burger Kitchen.  Shu denied riders were under pressure to get deliveries made quickly. The former investment banker worked as a rider for Deliveroo for eight months to help him understand the logistics. “I know exactly what it is like – the hardships and the work involved to be a rider. Under no circumstances are we pressuring people to go super-fast on the road.” The Green party’s leader, Natalie Bennett, said the government needed to do more to “crack down on these dodgy employment practises”. She said: “The new offer made by their employers still falls far below a living wage and fails to address the fact that riders’ employment contracts offer no security in the event of sickness or accidents. “This strike highlights that while the ‘gig economy’ means cheaper and more convenient services for customers, it all too often relies on – and facilitates – the exploitation of workers.” • This article has been amended to make clear that Deliveroo had offered a choice of pay plans to drivers and riders before the government intervened. 