It is the largest investment in our 48-year history, crowed Andrew Swaffield, chief executive of Monarch, after securing a £165m injection from owner Greybull Capital. He should contain his excitement. Asking your shareholder for a large handout is not usually seen as a mark of success. At easyJet and Ryanair, the cash flows to the owners in the form of strong dividends, which is how the game is supposed to work, though it rarely has at Monarch in recent years. Greybull deserves credit for answering the call. If its choice was simple, one assumes the private equity firm would have stepped up before the Civil Aviation Authority started prowling around. Last month’s episode, in which the regulator arranged for planes to recover stranded passengers should Monarch be unable to renew its operating licence, was unhelpful for the brand. Greybull is not a charity and its decision will reflect hard-headed calculations. First, it committed £75m in the last rescue and so would be reluctant to call time if the turnaround plan is viable. Second, the plan has one easy-to-identify saving in the form of lower fuel costs when more efficient Boeings arrive on improved sale-and-leaseback terms. Third, there is the hope that the industry cannot suffer another of disruption year like the one it just had. Monarch was reduced to break-even levels, from a pre-tax profit of £19m a year ago. Note that the first of new planes will not land until 2018 and the new fleet will be phased in over the following three years. In the meantime, the European short-haul market will continue to be oversupplied and easyJet and Ryanair will make the running on ticket prices. Greybull may have a fourth factor in mind – that it is easier to secure a sale, or partial sale, now that the Atol operating licence is in place. The last rumour said the Chinese owner of Hainan Airlines was interested in buying a stake. In Greybull’s shoes, you would surely be tempted to look for an exit, or at least a way to de-risk an investment that has suddenly become much larger than planned. Mr Kipling, you might think, is a chap who would enjoy a late British summer and the chance to spend a lazy afternoon in the fresh air nibbling on a French fancy, or suchlike. It turns out he hated the hot September. Or, rather, parent company Premier Foods did. Its trading update was a long grumble about how warm it has been for the time of year. Cakes, it should be said, were innocent. Premier’s culprits were gravy, puddings and custard. Group sales fell 5.4% in the second quarter of the financial year and trading profit for first half was “slightly lower” than a year ago. Don’t worry, soothed chief executive Gavin Darby, full-year expectations for profit are unchanged due to “the careful management of costs”. On translation, he means he has cut the advertising budget. A planned 10% increase has been reversed, which looks a panicky decision from a company that has spent the past couple of years telling its shareholders that advertising works wonders on a portfolio of brands than runs from Oxo to Ambrosia to Angel Delight. If Darby has been tempted by short-termist tactics, it would be understandable. He fought off a 65p-a-share takeover approach from US group McCormick, the Schwartz spice folk, -this year. That offer was at twice the share price at the time, which brings demands for quick improvements. A profits warning – as opposed to news of action to avert one – would have cranked the pressure up another notch. As it was, the shares fell 6% to 49p on Wednesday. The peak Christmas trading period will also be sweaty for Darby. “It’s just not right that two-thirds of energy customers are stuck on the most expensive tariffs,” said Theresa May, in the style of Ed Miliband, at the Tory party conference. Her phrasing was slightly inaccurate since most of those customers aren’t stuck; it’s just that they have never bothered to switch supplier, or are so baffled by the complexity of tariffs that they are deterred. But the prime minister’s drift was clear: there will be a policy response. If so, the big six suppliers face assault on two fronts because the switching brigade is growing in number. Analysts at Jefferies noted another 21% year-on-year rise in September; so far this year, they calculate, switches have risen 25% and independent suppliers have gained a net 900,000 customers. Jefferies predicts that by 2019 the independents’ share of the market will reach 26% and the big six’s top-line profits will fall by 22%. That’s a big shift – and it’s happening before May gets to work. Expect a massive lobbying effort by the old order: government intervention represents a real danger that probably isn’t reflected in share prices. 