The new boss of Argos, John Rogers, is planning a remarkable nationwide tour in an attempt to boost staff morale and improve customer service at the catalogue retailer after it was bought by Sainsbury’s. Rogers will visit eight shops a day for five days in the run-up to Christmas. Just 10 weeks into the job, Rogers has already toured numerous distribution centres, a couple of call centres and delivered parcels to people’s homes. When the Guardian joined Rogers on his latest trip with a delivery driver, he had just encountered some of the challenges of the job. “Last time the guy came to the door in his boxers. Everyone made sure to keep eye contact,” he jokes. Rogers is working hard to turn Argos, considered by many to be one of the dying dogs of the high street, into a modern growth story for Sainsbury’s. The supermarket chain paid £1.4bn for Argos in September, with Rogers moving from his role as finance director of Sainsbury’s to become chief executive of its new business. Argos and its new owner face their biggest test yet later this month in Black Friday, now the biggest sales day of the year for online retailers and Argos. Around 12m visitors hit the Argos site on Black Friday last year, making 18 purchases a second. Rogers expects this year to be even bigger. Over the black Friday weekend, which starts on 25 November, Brits are expected to spend 38% more than last year – or £2.9bn – according to accountancy firm PwC. Argos will kick off 13 days of Black Friday deals from this Friday, 18 November. In an attempt to avoid the IT and delivery problems that have dogged some retailers in previous years, including Argos, the company has invested £10m in improving its FastTrack same-day delivery service. It has added up to 200 more delivery vans, taking the total to more than 800, while its computer software has also been improved to ensure Argos can cope with surges in demand. For Black Friday itself, Argos will set up three “war rooms”. One will monitor and tweak deals, one will oversee systems – standing ready to tackle any technical glitches - and the third will oversee communications with shoppers. Rogers predicts that Argos will take 70% or more of its orders online on that day, compared with 50% during normal trading, and that the company is better prepared for Black Friday than last year after rigorously testing its systems. “Our underlying stability it a lot stronger. We can tap into Black Friday and know that our systems are robust,” Rogers says. “Last year we underestimated how digital it would be, and it was really mobile focused. People were getting on the bus in the morning, and tapping on their mobiles to see what deals they could get. This year I would expect to see the same and possibly a step up in that trend.” However, he says the group’s 800-plus stores, nearly 30 of which are now Sainsbury’s outlets, are an important and overlooked part of the chain’s future. In Rogers’ eyes, one of the key things Sainsbury’s can bring to Argos is expertise in customer service. “Sainsbury’s is very good at making colleagues in stores feel really valued and in a world that is increasingly digital, stores can feel slightly forgotten. But the reality is that, although we get more and more orders online 80% of those are fulfilled in stores. Stores are still really important,” he adds. Over the next three years Argos will open 250 more outlets in Sainsbury’s stores. While Rogers will not confirm how many of those will replace existing outlets, analysts expect as many as half will be new stores. Furthermore, the 10 Argos outlets which opened in Sainsbury’s stores a year ago, before the takeover deal was agreed, are enjoying sales growth of up to 30% year-on-year. That growth story and the strengthened buying power of Sainsbury’s, which now combines its £2.5bn of clothing and home sales with Argos’s £4.1bn total sales, should help the group to cope with suppliers keen to raise prices following the EU referendum and the slump in the value of sterling. “Our growth trajectory can’t be replicated by the competition and we can say, ‘Come with us on this journey’ [to suppliers]. If you do you are going to drive the top line even more. To me this is an incredibly great deal irrespective of Brexit,” he says. “It’s not survival of the fittest. It’s the ability to adapt that matters.” 