He’s jumping without a parachute. After 31 years in the cosy world of John Lewis, the employee-owned department store’s £1m-a-year managing director, Andy Street, is checking out with no payoff in a bid to become mayor of the West Midlands. It is a mission of passion for the Birmingham-born Street, who is fascinated by politics and has high-profile friends in the House of Commons. The politics, philosophy and economics graduate privately expresses his admiration for London mayor Sadiq Khan, who switched from a high-flying law career to try to bring about real change through politics. Now Street, who will speak at the Tory conference starting in Birmingham , is clearly keen to do the same. But in his bid to become a Tory mayor in a Labour stronghold, Street is also leaving behind a department store heading into stormy waters. Operating profits at the chain, which is regarded as a bellwether for the UK economy, slumped 31% to £32m in the first half of this year as it struggled to adapt to a fast-changing market in which shoppers increasingly expect to buy online for convenient delivery. Street’s lack of pay-off contrasts strongly with the £1.9m golden goodbye cheque collected by his former colleague Waitrose boss Mark Price when he exited - to become a Tory peer and trade minister - earlier this year. One source close to the business said Street’s lack of a payoff could reflect the group’s reluctance for him to leave at such short notice: he will be out of the business on 28 October, just a month after the company confirmed he would be leaving, while Price stayed on for six months after his resignation. But it’s big leap for Street who is thought to be paid around £1.1m a year. In his decade running the department store, Street has overseen major expansion and helped transform its image from a fusty middle-aged brand into Middle England’s favourite shop. John Lewis only began advertising on TV the year that Street took over. Now its Christmas ad is a big event attracting millions of hits on social media. The chain also stocks more fashion, launching own labels with appeal to a younger audience such as Somerset by Alice Temperley and Kin. When Street took charge, John Lewis had opened just one store in six years. In his 10 years it has opened seven full-scale department stores, taking the total to 33, as well as 12 smaller “at home” outlets, an airport store at Heathrow and a small outlet in St Pancras International station. Sales have risen 70% to £4.6bn and operating profits have risen 48% to £250m. It was Street’s decision to maintain staff numbers and concentrate on service during the economic downturn – when others were cutting costs – that helped John Lewis win market share from its rivals. John Lewis’s online strategy was kicked off in 2000 when the group bought the UK arm of buy.com. But Street’s enthusiasm for innovation and technology has helped it outperform major rivals Marks & Spencer and Debenhams. More than a third of all its merchandise is now sold online, and sales via the internet rose by 18% in the first half of this year. The business expects more than half of all sales to be online by 2020, and that produces new challenges: sales growth means investing hundreds of millions of pounds in the distribution infrastructure required for home deliveries – and each item sold online generates less profit because of all that behind-the-scenes work. “The writing is on the wall for department stores,” says Nick Bubb, an independent retail analyst. “They have got huge fixed costs. John Lewis has been bucking the trend with its incredible online growth, but it’s not clear that has done anything for profits.” He says Street’s replacement should be a “different kind of guy, who’s good at nitty-gritty focus on profits”. With costs rising, he says – particularly after the Brexit vote, which has driven down the value of the pound – John Lewis will have to find cost-cuts that will not hit service. The group has already warned that it is likely to cut jobs over time and a A merger of head office functions with Waitrose may be on the cards. Most retail watchers expect Street’s successor to be an insider, with retail director Mark Lewis and commercial director Paula Nickolds regarded as the frontrunners. Lewis, who only joined the department store in 2013, has a background at eBay and the parcel delivery company Collect+, both of which sectors are at the heart of the digital future. Nickolds, on the other hand, is a John Lewis “lifer” who joined the partnership in 1994 as a graduate trainee, and is regarded as good product and people person. Whoever takes charge will need a command of online selling and a clear idea of how to keep shoppers coming into the stores, where sales are falling. The new boss may also need to take tough decisions on development plans. The new Waitrose boss has already ditched plans for new supermarkets as he faces up to the new retail world order. John Lewis is unlikely to close stores in the short term, but will have to think hard about how to use space. “The real challenge is going to be how to grow the business from this point onwards,” says Maureen Hinton, group research director at retail analysts Verdict. “It really can’t keep opening stores. The way to grow is by taking market share by being better than everybody else and sustaining that culture.” 