The US economy added only 156,000 jobs in September, the US Department of Labor announced on Friday, a figure likely to be seized on as the presidential race enters its final stretch. The unemployment rate was 5%, up from 4.9% in August. Economists had expected job growth of 175,000 and the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 4.9%.  Job growth has slowed down this year, with the number of jobs added averaging about 178,000 jobs a month. In 2015, on average about 229,000 jobs were added each month. Friday’s report comes after a report released earlier this week by the payroll company ADP found that private companies added just 154,000 jobs last month. This was slowest job growth reported by ADP since April.  Yet even as job growth has slowed down, the number of people applying for unemployment insurance has dropped below 250,000 for the second time this year. Last week, 249,000 people applied for unemployment benefits. The number of people currently receiving unemployment benefits is just a little over 2 million – levels last seen in 2000. The US labor market and the pace of the country’s economic recovery have come into the spotlight during the presidential election. With wages finally showing some signs of growth after years of being stagnant, many people are still feeling left behind.  The energy sector has been hit especially hard over the last year in the wake of low oil prices. Since reaching peak employment in September 2014, employment in the energy sector dropped by more than 220,000 to 632,000. Mining sector employment remain unchanged in September, according to the labor department.  This September, US employers announced plans to cut 44,324 jobs – a 38% increase from August, according to outplacement firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas. That number, however, is 25% below the number of jobs cut this time last year. Layoffs and companies moving their operations abroad have been a key talking point for Donald Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, throughout this election season.  “Our jobs are fleeing the country. They’re going to Mexico, they’re going to many other countries. But we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States and with it, firing all of their people,” Trump said last week during the first presidential debate.  Next month’s jobs report will be released on 4 November, just four days before the US presidential election. “Let’s not forget, though, that ballots are already being cast across much of the country between absentee ballots and early voting,” said Mark Hamrick, senior economist at Bankrate.com. “It is highly unlikely that the storyline about the economy is going to change so much that it alone would shift allegiances in the presidential slugfest.” Friday’s jobs report is the last one before the Federal Reserve meets on 1 and 2 November. Economists do not expect the US central bank to raise interest rates at that meeting as it is so close to the election.  Recently, Trump has accused the Fed of keeping interest rates low to create a “false economy” and to benefit Barack Obama.  “Partisan politics plays no role in our decisions,” said Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen when asked about his remarks. “We do not discuss politics at our meetings and we do not take politics into account in our decisions.” The Federal Reserve raised interest rates for a first time in almost a decade last December. It was expected to raise interest rates four times this year, but forecasters now expect only one rate hike, this December.  When the Federal Reserve last met in September, three of the twelve members of the Federal Market Open Committee – the policy-setting arm of the Fed – voted to raise rates.  The lower than expected job numbers could lower the expectation of a December job hike.  “With labor market slack being taken up at a somewhat slower pace than in previous years, scope for some further improvement in the labor market remaining, and inflation continuing to run below our 2% target, we chose to wait for further evidence of continued progress toward our objectives,” Yellen said in September when explaining why the Fed chose not hike rates at that time. The Fed has also been looking for a faster growth in wages. In September, average hourly earnings went up by 6 cents to $25.79. Over the year, average hourly earnings have risen by 2.6%. The Obama administration has previously referred to wages as the unfinished part of the economic recovery.  Slowing job growth paired with low wages could delay an interest rate hike, according to Paul Ashworth, chief US economist at Capital Economics. “The Fed isn’t going to be rushing into action when wage growth is that tepid,” he said. 