The markets are fixated on the possible options for Deutsche Bank as it faces the prospect of a $14bn (£10.5bn) penalty from the US authorities for mis-selling mortgage bonds a decade ago. A report has sparked speculation that the German government would step in if John Cryan, the Briton running Deutsche, fails to find a solution. Cryan has insisted Deutsche does not need help from the government and these are some of his options Deutsche has insisted from the outset it would not pay $14bn to the US Department of Justice (DoJ), describing it as an “opening position” to resolve the mis-selling of bonds between 2005-07. Talking it down seems to be the main route being adopted by Cryan who told the German newspaper Bild on Wednesday: “The Department of Justice will treat us with the same fairness as American banks that have already agreed on a compromise.” Deutsche can probably afford up to €6bn (£5.2bn), while the German bank is likely to be budgeting on closer to half that sum. One of the reasons the shares have collapsed to a near 30-year lows is the concern of shareholders that they will be asked to back a cash call. They had to dip into their pockets to find €11bn between 2013-14. Christopher Wheeler, banks analyst at Atlantic Equities, points out that with share prices at this level any cash call would dilute the already diminished worth of existing shareholders. It might also become a target for the amount that the DoJ asks for in any settlement. Deutsche is not breaching rules as they stand but would need more capital to reach levels that are expected to be set in the coming years. Analysts at Autonomous have calculated the bank could save €2.8bn by restricting bonuses. “Being very tough on the 2016 bonus pool and requiring the forfeiture of unvested shares could be helpful,” Bloomberg reported Autonomous’s Stuart Graham as saying.  Cryan is asking for five years to carry out his turnaround plan, which includes selling off businesses as demonstrated on Wednesday when he sold Abbey Life and its 735,000 UK policyholders for €1bn. He wants to spin off the retail arm – Postbank – and sell down a stake in a Chinese bank. But the market is impatient and an enhanced strategy might buy him more time. If all this fails, the according to a report in Die Zeit, the government might take a 25% stake and possibly facilitate a merger with Commerzbank. The idea has been denied at the highest level in Germany. If it was being hatched, under current EU rules, bond holders would have to take losses too in major test of the new regime, imposed only at the start of the year, intended to prevent taxpayers being on the hook for troubled banks. 