Retailers have warned of challenging times ahead as the weak pound ramps up their import costs and consumer confidence is buffeted by a climate of economic uncertainty as the UK embarks on Brexit negotiations. The industry’s main trade group, the British Retail Consortium (BRC), took only limited solace from its monthly figures showing strong food sales giving a boost to retailers’ takings last month by making up for a drop in demand for clothing during September’s heatwave. Underscoring the volatile pattern of recent months, the latest snapshot of high street and online spending showed like-for-like sales were up 0.4% on the year in September, a turnaround from August’s 0.9% drop. Sales growth was capped by warm weather – including the hottest September day since 1911 – which dented appetite for several products, including autumn clothes, flu medicines and duvets. The small recovery in sales follows news that consumer confidence continued to recover last month, but the BRC said it was too soon to say June’s vote to leave the EU was not affecting household spending. “While this month’s sales figures may add to the impression that Brexit impacts have been brushed off, it is still too early to judge as we have not yet navigated the roughest waters,” said Rachel Lund, head of retail insight and analytics at BRC. She said reports of businesses’ reluctance to invest could slowly feed through to consumers and hurt their spending power. “We are also likely to see some upward pressure on prices as we move into 2017 as retailers increasingly feel the impact of exchange rate movements, although the level of competition in the industry may mean increases are more muted than implied by the scale of the devaluation,” Lund said. The sharp drop in the pound since the vote to leave the EU has raised the prices retailers pay for imports. Sterling fell after the vote and has come under further pressure over the past week on signals from Theresa May’s government that it will go for a ‘hard’ Brexit deal that sacrifices single market access in favour of stricter immigration controls.  On Monday the pound dropped another 0.4% against the US dollar, to $1.2380, but it was flat against the euro at €1.11. David Davis, the Brexit secretary, claimed that the “major part of the fall” in the pound to a 31-year-low had been down to a “flash crash”. He told parliament on Monday: “There will be lots of speculative comments in the next two-and-a-half-years that will drive the pound down and up and down and up and there is little we can do about that.” The small silver lining for retailers from the pound’s drop has been an influx of bargain-hungry foreign tourists keen to pick up luxury items. The BRC said the jewellery and watches category enjoyed another record performance last month. But on the whole, the weak pound was added to pressures on retailers and the BRC fears their costs will be further inflated if the government fails to negotiate a Brexit deal that allows easy access to European markets. The BRC has joined other business groups in warning the government over the potential economic costs of a hard Brexit deal. The BRC said prices of consumer staples such as food and clothes will shoot up if the UK has to fall back on World Trade Organisation rules. While leaving the EU and potentially the single market could offer up the potential for new trade deals in Europe and beyond, there was also a significant risk from ending existing arrangements, it warned. The group fears that under WTO rules, the new tariff rates on imports from the EU would be highest for food and clothing. “The average duty on meat imports could be as high as 27%, while clothing and footwear would attract tariffs of 11-16% versus the current zero-rating for all EU imports,” the trade group said as it launched its A Fair Brexit for Consumers campaign on Monday. But the Economists for Brexit pressure group said analysis failed to recognise that leaving the single market and “embracing” unilateral free trade would allow the UK to cut tariffs altogether, which would in turn reduce the cost of consumer goods. “Our forecasts show that this will reduce consumer prices by an average of 8%,” said the group’s co-chair Patrick Minford. In the near-term, consumer spending remains the main driver of economic growth in the UK, helped for now by low unemployment, record low interest rates and relatively low inflation. Separate figures from Barclaycard will bolster hopes that the trend can continue. They showed spending was buoyant last month as people splashed out on pub meals in the hot weather and as consumer confidence picked up – albeit based on a survey before the Conservative party conference fanned fears over a hard Brexit. Barclaycard, which processes nearly half of credit and debit card transactions, showed spending rose 4.2% on the year in September, making it the joint-strongest month for growth this year after the same increase in August. Consumer confidence was the highest since Barclaycard began tracking it in 2014, with 48% of the 2,000 people polled between 23 and 28 September saying they felt upbeat about the UK economy, a rise from 34% who felt that way before the EU referendum vote in June. 