Welcome to the baffling world of multinational corporate taxation. The European commission’s ground-breaking ruling that Apple owes Ireland €13bn (£11bn) in back-taxes after enjoying a quarter-century of illegal state-aid has exposed at least three oddities, or examples of plain old hypocrisy. First, there is the bizarre spectacle of the Irish government saying it would rather not have a cash windfall that would fund its health service for a year. Even after the years of austerity, Dublin would rather fight commissioner Margrethe Vestager’s ruling. Second, US politicians are performing gymnastics. A US Senate committee in 2013 accused Apple of being “among America’s largest tax avoiders” by exploiting Ireland’s generous tax breaks. Yet, now that Vestager & co have taken a shot at those same Irish inducements, the US political establishment is furious. Third, there is a mystery of why Brussels has taken so long to act. One of Apple’s contentious deals with the Irish revenue authority dates to 1991, for heaven’s sake. Or perhaps no detective work is required. Deals between multinational and tax authorities are officially confidential. In practice, that is merely a polite fiction to allow regulators and legislators to do nothing until public anger reaches boiling point. That is what has happened with taxation of multinationals. Vestager deserves congratulation for reading the mood. In the other corner, Tim Cook, Apple chief executive, takes the prize for misplaced indignation. His “message to the Apple community in Europe” was a masterclass in missing the bleedin’ obvious. Cook grumbled about how the commission had “launched an effort to rewrite Apple’s history in Europe, ignore Ireland’s tax laws and upend the international tax system in the process”. He warned – or threatened – that jobs and investment in Europe would be at risk. Yet he failed to address the wider picture, or see the basic point that Apple has been paying so little tax in Europe that a confrontation was inevitable eventually. Yes, we all understand that the intellectual development takes place in California. But that does not equate to a licence to reduce the tax bill to tiny sums in territories in which the actual sales of products take place. Vestager had it right: “If my tax bill was 0.05%, falling to 0.005%, I would think I need to have a second look.” Cook should indeed rethink. The tax system for multinationals is in a fine old mess, but a company like Apple ought to be able to recognise a few basic principles. Number one: forget the 1990s, or even the 2000s, and know when your tax-planning is just too aggressive for your customers’ tastes. A landslide was always on the cards. By a majority of 95%, the shareholders of ARM Holdings voted on Tuesday for their company to be sold to SoftBank of Japan for £24bn, a price equivalent to 43% more than the old share price. The result was never in doubt. Less predictable, however, has been the lack of serious fuss elsewhere about a foreign takeover of the biggest and best technology company to have come out of the UK in the past 20 years. Chancellor Philip Hammond set the tone on day one with his silly comment that the deal showed that, after the UK’s vote for Brexit, the country had lost “none of its allure to global investors”. Nonsense. ARM, as a firm that sells and licenses its microchips around the globe, can afford to be indifferent about the UK’s membership of the EU. The real Brexit angle was only this: SoftBank got its offer on the table before Theresa May’s government could decide whether its commitment to “a proper industrial strategy” should mean bids like the one for ARM should undergo a national interest test. Hammond’s lack of concern is more alarming the more one considers how little, apart from a pay-day for ARM shareholders, SoftBank brings to the table. The Japanese firm’s promise to double the workforce in the UK over the next five years commits it doing only what ARM would almost certainly have achieved under its own steam. At least SoftBank founder and chief executive Masayoshi Son shares ARM’s management’s enthusiasm for the opportunities offered by the chip-heavy “internet of things,” it could be argued. Yes, but it’s hard to see why ownership from Japan is an improvement on a set-up that has served ARM well. As a highly successful public company, ARM has never struggled to get its investment plans approved by shareholders. SoftBank, by contrast, carries a mountain of debt, has no experience in the microchip business, and has competing claims on its capital, not least a US mobile telephone business facing stiff competition. “A proper industrial strategy wouldn’t automatically stop the sale of British firms to foreign ones, but it should be capable of stepping in to defend a sector that is as important as pharmaceuticals is to Britain,” said May in her one and only speech in the campaign to win the Tory leadership. The reference was to Pfizer’s failed tilt at AstaZeneca in 2014. Is the UK technology industry, with ARM at its head, different? Perhaps it is, but a UK government ought to be able to explain why. 