 The cute and cuddly Moshi Monsters, already the stars of the hit British game with 80 million players and counting, are now starring in a movie. What’s the story? Our Moshi heroes are given three daring missions by the notorious Dr Strangeglove, the leader of Clonc (Criminal League Of Nasty Critters). The evil doctor has captured the great Moshling egg, and plans to use it to transform an army of kidnapped Moshling pets into minions with which to take over Monstro City, and next the world. Mwa ha ha. However, if the Moshis can bring back the three items Strangeglove has sent them to fetch, he "promises" to return what he has stolen. The two stars are Poppet, who is a girly, sassy, pink and surprisingly sensible cat-like creature, and friend Katsuma, a ninja-loving, tornado-generating manga-bunny. He is also self-centered and vain and causes problems throughout the story. Luckily, four of their friends tag along on the adventure. There is Zommer, a rock-star zombie who has the ability to pull off parts of his body, which helps save the day in a limbo dancing competition organised by furry cannibals. Next is Furi: you can ask him to eat anything. Diavlo, the flying volcano, likes his sausages burnt to a crisp, and Luvli, the floating cherry, has magic powers at the end of her stem. The creatures they set out to save are the Moshlings, who come in all shapes and sizes. There are trumpets, coconuts, smartphones, hovercrafts, pineapples, dinosaurs, seahorses, drums and even a miniature Lady Googoo and a certain Dustbin Beaver. In the end, by being forced to work as a team with his friends, Katsuma learns that “if you stand for nothing, you’ll fall for anything”. If you are there for nobody but yourself, you’ll fail. Which makes sense to me. The Empire Leicester Square crowd is made up of mega-fan eight-year-old magazine competition winners running about with Moshi Monsters T- shirts, balloons and face-paint asking for autographs and hugs from Moshi creator Michael Acton Smith. He is wearing a purple velvet jacket and looking a bit like Willy Wonka. Moshi Monsters started out as a online game, but today there is a whole Moshi Merchandise collection, which includes (hold your breath): magazines, cuddly toys, duvet covers, christmas baubles, rucksacks, Moshi Toffee Apple Delight drink, and now a film. Next, Acton Smith says he might build theme parks! Has he gone a step too far? Actually the film was very enjoyable, and frankly I'd like to see it again. When I heard about the theme park, I was so excited that I wanted to go up to Acton Smith and order him to build it this instant. On the downside, Moshi Monsters: The Movie was introduced as made in Britain, but half of the voices were American, and that irritates me because all cartoons sound American nowadays.  Credit for the jokes and the crazy cast of characters to screenwriter Steve Cleverley, who has the amazing-sounding job of director of "moshiology" for Mind Candy, the company which makes the Moshi Monsters game. I have to confess I am already a fan – I have five separate monster accounts, and another three that I can't remember the passwords for. But I enjoyed the film because like the games, it had an imaginative mystery to solve and the same cool style of drawing. Overall, three Monstars out of five. UK release: 20 December Production: Mindy Candy, Spider Eye Studios Cast: Ashley Slater, Tom Clarke Hill, Phillipa Alexander, Emma Tate, Keith Wickham, Boris Hiestand, Rajesh David Director: Wip Vernooij Screenwriter: Steve Cleverley Producers: Jocelyn Stevenson, Giles Healy, Erica Darby Executive producers: Darran Garnham, Divinia Knowles, Michael Acton Smith Art director: Cako Facioli Editor: Mark Edwards Music: Sanj Sen U certificate, 81 minutes Even fans of the online game Moshi Monsters may find the film version an incredibly annoying and baffling bore, writes Peter Bradshaw 