 Q I’m thinking of upgrading to an iPhone 6 – the 4G phone and plans are significantly more expensive; are they worth it? Josh, via email  A This is a question of two parts as the merits of the iPhone 6 and 4G technology are quite separate. 4G is short for fourth generation telecommunications technology, a successor to 3G. It has the potential to offer connection speeds that exceed that of the average home internet connection and could potentially replace an ADSL connection for many people (the IMT-A standard sets the peak speeds as somewhere between 100 Mbit/s and 1Gbit/s). In my personal usage I’ve found EE and Three both offer around 20-40Mbit/s with a good signal although your speeds may vary, although I’ve replaced my home internet connection by tethering my laptop to my Three 4G smartphone. The downside of 4G is that on data plans that don’t provide unlimited data, you run out more quickly due to the increased data transfer rates. If you use a lot of mobile data, travel a lot, or can get an unlimited data plan for a good rate, then 4G is a great option to allow for fast internet wherever you are. However, if you cannot, then you’re likely to be better served by getting a nicer phone and saving some of your bill, at least until 4G coverage is ubiquitous. The iPhone 6 is Apple’s latest smartphone and is one of two devices recently launched by Apple (the iPhone 6, and the iPhone 6 Plus). It has a 4.7” display, which is a step up from the 4” iPhone 5, and older 3.5” models. They’ve also reduced the thickness of device and increased battery life. The iPhone 6 comes with iOS 8, and with that comes iTunes and the App Store for access to a plethora of third party content as well as any of your prior iTunes/AppStore purchases that can be redownloaded for free. Q I read that I should only run my laptop battery between 40% and 80% to preserve it, is that true and how much of a difference does it make? Jenni, via email  A There is lots of confusion around techniques that extend your battery’s life, primarily caused by the difference between modern lithium ion batteries and older nickel-based batteries (Ni-MH/Ni-CD) that suffer from something called the memory effect which would cause them to rapidly deteriorate if only partially charged/discharged in a way that it appears to “remember” the previous charge. Lithium ion batteries, however, should usually last a few years before they lose significant capacity, although under some usage patterns may deteriorate much more quickly. Before I begin, it’s worth noting that whatever you do, your battery will die in a few years, and it’s not worth sacrificing practicality for longevity. It’s fine to let your battery hit 0, or charge it for a long day away from a socket. That said, if you want to prolong the life of your battery, the following few tips should help squeeze a little more life from it. 1. Once you hit 100%, avoid keeping your computer plugged in. This is becoming decreasingly an issue as modern manufactures build in safeguards and buffers to prevent this from killing your battery. 2. Frequent partial charge cycles can confuse the battery’s time remaining clock. Although fully discharging a computer frequently can damage the battery, it’s worth draining the battery occasionally to reset the clock. 3. Perform shallow charges. Instead of fully discharging every day, li-ion batteries perform best when discharging for a short while, then charging for a short while. A discharge to around 45%-50% offers the best usage to cycle ratio, and allows you to still use your computer away from the socket. Keeping these few points in mind can really help to maintain battery capacity for longer, and keep it running smoothly.If you’re interested in more information about batteries, try Battery University, and for a more scientific explanation: Washington University. Q I have a large collection of films and TV shows on my computer that I’d like to be able to watch on my commute, but not all of them will play on my iPhone — I don’t really want to spend a month converting them all, so what options do I have? Jordan, via email  A The problem of file format compatibility is one that causes trouble for lots of people who are trying to eradicate CDs and DVDs from their lives. Fortunately on the desktop this problem was solved a while ago with VLC by VideoLan, a free and open-source media player that runs on OS X, Windows, many flavours of Linux and BSD. It packages many video and audio codecs that can play almost anything that you try. VLC for iOS and Android is pretty great, playing most of the files you could ever want to watch as well as offering more convenient playing mechanisms such as swipes on the screen to skip or change volume (although this is annoying if you accidentally touch the screen). VLC can be found for free on both the Apple AppStore and Google Play Store. 