Next year’s series of 24 is make or break. With Kiefer Sutherland busy wringing his hands on the curiously underpowered Designated Survivor, 24: Legacy will be the first series of 24 not to jet along on the clench-jawed motivation of Jack Bauer. But at least the 24 producers have had the grace to throw us a bone. It has been revealed that Carlos Bernard will be back in Legacy to revive his character Tony Almeida. “But didn’t Tony die in Day Five?” I hear you ask. Of course he didn’t – he turned up again two years later during Day Seven. You remember, the series where he stole a weaponised pathogen to punish a man who worked for a man who worked for the president, who had ordered the murder of his wife and unborn child. You remember, the season where Jack became exposed to the same pathogen and died, before coming back to life like nothing had happened. God, I love 24. Anyway, if Tony Almeida can make it back into 24, maybe other peripheral characters can too. Here’s my wishlist: If 24: Legacy wants to really get people excited, Nina Myers should be the next original character to return. Crucial to the legend of 24, it was Nina who turned on the government and killed Jack’s wife at the end of Day One. Did Jack shoot her dead halfway through the third series? Yes, but that shouldn’t necessarily impede her return. A woman this evil probably doesn’t even need blood. Way back in Day Three, Jack reluctantly took on a partner. This was a mistake, as that partner was Chase Edmunds, his daughter Kim’s boyfriend. Things went about as well as can be expected, with Jack eventually lopping Chase’s hand off with an axe. Later, we’d learn that Kim had split up with Chase, after she became inconsolably grief-stricken when Jack faked his own death. Hopefully we’ll meet Chase next year, sipping from the World’s Least Desirable Father-In-Law mug he couldn’t quite bring himself to give Jack.  The all-time worst 24 president. Worse than James “Reagan” Heller. Worse than Allison “Clinton” Taylor. Worse than Charles “Nixon” Logan. Worse, even, than Alan “Alan Dale” Dale. Wayne Palmer was the younger brother of all-time greatest 24 president David Palmer, and saw to his presidency like the horny, preening berk he was. Written out of the original show after an assassination attempt left him in a coma, we should now revive Wayne purely to see what a cap-wearing, Segway-riding ninny he’s grown up to be. We last saw the corrupt former CTU director detonating a nuclear blast by crashing a plane into a desert as he succumbed to a fatal dose of plutonium poisoning. But this is 24, so he definitely isn’t dead. Despite his comprehensive burns, extensive injuries and near-constant facial haemorrhaging, George is still out there somewhere. Maybe he’s leading an underground counterterrorism unit like Bill Buchanan. That would be nice. God bless you, Aaron Pierce. The sole unanimous force of law-abiding good in the entire history of 24, Aaron Pierce was President Palmer’s bodyguard, then President Keeler’s bodyguard, then President Logan’s bodyguard, then the bodyguard of President Taylor’s daughter. Actually, come to think of it, this means he failed to stop two assassination attempts, another successful assassination and the presumably-fatal stabbing of a third president by his unhinged first lady, with whom he was romantically involved. God, Aaron Pierce was awful. Perhaps he should be the big baddie next year. In 24: Live Another Day, all Fowlds did was mutely stand behind Prime Minister Stephen Fry and scowl a lot, like she was definitely evil. But she didn’t actually do anything evil, so perhaps she can rock up during episode three of Legacy and punch Tony Almeida on the bottom or something. You know, for closure. 