 Kim Kardashian’s bottom may have broken the internet earlier in 2015, but her new emoji iPhone app hasn’t yet had the same effect on Apple’s App Store. Kimoji was released earlier in the week, with celebrity-news site TMZ claiming that “9,000 download requests per millisecond” crashed the App Store until “the Apple tech team swooped in and shored it up”. Kardashian apologised via tweet: Apple, I'm so sorry I broke your App Store!!! Apple has denied the claims, telling AppleInsider that “there were absolutely no issues with the App Store yesterday”. There is no doubt, however, about Kimoji’s popularity: the £1.49 app is currently the top paid iPhone app in the US and UK. More startlingly, it has broken into the top 10 grossing apps in both countries, and in the UK is currently making more money than lucrative mobile games Candy Crush Soda Saga and Game of War – Fire Age, as well as dating app Tinder. The app provides Kardashian fans with more than 250 emojis – cartoon faces, nails, makeup and buttocks included – designed to be used within messaging apps including WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. Its success comes despite low user ratings on the App Store, with the app averaging two stars out of five in the UK and two-and-a-half stars in the US. Kardashian is no stranger to the apps world, having launched an official app earlier in 2015 promising personal diaries, Q&As with fans, live streaming video and beauty, shopping and fashion tips for a monthly subscription of £2.29. Meanwhile, her Kim Kardashian: Hollywood mobile game has made more than $113m (£76m) since its release in June 2014, leading its developer Glu Mobile to sign up more celebrities – Katy Perry, Britney Spears and Nicki Minaj – for similar titles. Kimoji’s success should make up for the disappointment of Kardashian being displaced from 100th spot in the Media Guardian 100 power rankings by Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the UK’s Labour party, who has so far shown no interest in the branded emoji apps market. 