Alfred Hickling 
 The news that Elizabeth Newman will assume the artistic leadership of the Octagon from July is both a welcome and a natural development. The 29-year-old director joined the theatre five years ago, first as an assistant, then associate of artistic director David Thacker. In that time she has revitalised the theatre’s new writing programme, directed an eye-catching run of Christmas shows and now serves up a potent version of Private Lives that goes down like a chilled measure of vitriol in a long-stemmed glass. Many revivals of this play are so languid as to become almost parodic. Newman, on the other hand, cranks the dialogue as determinedly as Fiona Hampton’s manic Amanda winds up the gramophone before smashing the record to splinters over her ex-husband’s head. It’s an unarguably direct means of getting Harry Long’s blithe Elyot into the groove. Noël Coward knocked out the drama in three days and employed only four principal characters (plus the obligatory maid, since the master would never consider completing a play without room service). Yet Hampton and Long instil a level of detail in their fractious interaction that enables you to picture vividly the various unseen co-respondents cited: Mark Burden, with his tastelessly expensive gifts, the verbose Clare Lavenham, and above all Vera Williams, possessor of “the nastiest hairbrush I ever saw”. As the original Elyot, Coward tended to reserve the best lines for himself; but Niall Costigan’s uptight Victor and Jessica Baglow’s empty-headed Sibyl are an acerbically drawn pair of boobies who clearly deserve one another. Even the domestic cameo impresses, as Chiraz Aich does the disgruntled trolley monologues with native French fluency. Such attention to detail makes Newman a name to look out for; certainly the Octagon’s immediate future seems to be in capable hands. • Until 18 April. Box office: 01204 520 661. Venue: Octagon, Bolton. Then at New Vic theatre, Newcastle-under-Lyme, 6-23 May. Box office: 01782 717 962. 