Ben Child 
 Looking back at my predictions this time last year for 2011's fanboy-friendly movies is a slightly humbling process. The brutal insouciance of Matthew Vaughn's Kick Ass had me convinced he could pull a blinder with X-Men: First Class, and I was reasonably unconvinced by the prospect of a Kenneth Branagh-directed Thor film. In the end the latter turned out to be the year's best superhero flick, with engagingly rich, surprisingly human performances from Tom Hiddleston and Chris Hemsworth, while the former never quite escaped bland, plasticky characterisation and tendency toward cheap dialogue which it inherited from the Bryan Singer and Brett Ratner iterations. I was a little concerned that Source Code would mark the beginning of Duncan "Moon" Jones' transformation into studio stooge (as it turned out, I needn't have worried), but at least I had an inkling that Rise of the Planet of the Apes might exceed expectations. As for Nicolas Winding Refn's Drive, and Andrew Niccol's In Time, two of the year's standout genre films, they were not even on my radar last January. No doubt 2012 will also throw up plenty of surprises, but it certainly has the potential to get us extremely hot under the collar based on tentpole fare alone. The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey arrives in December, Christopher Nolan's final Batman instalment The Dark Knight Rises is with us in July, and Prometheus, Ridley Scott's return to the Alien universe, crashes down in June. The Amazing Spider-Man, Marc Webb's reboot of the Marvel wallcrawler, also arrives in July, and we have Disney's planetary romance John Carter and Joss Whedon's The Avengers to look forward to in March and May respectively. On paper, it looks like an embarrassment of riches. The New York Times critic AO Scott is among those who have compared the current torrent of comic book movies to the one-time pre-eminence of the western genre, musing whether the former will ever produce films to compare with the brooding brilliance of John Ford's The Searchers or Howard Hawks' Rio Bravo. This year's crop have the potential to elevate the medium to new heights. I'm plumping for Nolan's The Dark Knight Rises to take the biggest bite of the cherry, followed closely by Webb's The Amazing Spider-Man, which I fancy as a sort of angsty John Hughes teen movie with added spandex. While Whedon is one of my favourite film-makers, I wonder if the ensemble nature of The Avengers will skew the movie away from human interplay and intrigue towards explosions and over-the-top exposition. On the other hand, to take the western comparison further, it might just end up as the genre's answer to The Wild Bunch or The Magnificent Seven. Incredibly, all the above arrive in cinemas within 10 weeks of each other. The future hasn't changed much in the past few decades of cinema. World War Z, a Brad Pitt-starring zombie apocalypse thriller, has its roots firmly in George A Romero's 1960s and 70s tales of the undead, while Hunger Games smacks of a cross between Running Man and The Handmaid's Tale. Len Wiseman's Total Recall remake seems to have borrowed liberally from 1984 with its warring superstates and focus on personality suppression, while Dredd (the Judge Dredd remake) ought to recall Paul Verhoeven's cult futuristic crime romp Robocop. As a 2000AD acolyte, I had high hopes for the last of these, but it seems to have become bogged down in a creative battle between screenwriter Alex Garland and director Pete Travis, with the latter at one point reportedly finding himself locked out of the editing room. Such inter-auteur spats do not generally bode well. World War Z is being pitched as the first in a series of big budget zombie flicks, a sort of Jason Bourne via Children of Men future vision, except … you know … with zombies. It has lingered in studio purgatory for rather too long for my liking. Hunger Games, on the other hand, I fancy to surpass its reputation as the new Twilight, though it clearly has the potential to plunge into emo teen-angst territory. The least said about Total Recall the better: why remake the film without the bravura third act which Verhoeven pegged onto the end of Philip K Dick's rather lightweight short story, while throwing in material from an entirely different dystopian classic for no apparent reason? The original Arnold Schwarzenegger version, from 1990, still holds up perfectly well to my mind. Prometheus might be Scott's return to Alien territory but the trailer released just before Christmas seemed to hint at a heady special effects-heavy space opera feel, rather than the murky claustrophobic slasher-flick-in-space chill of the original film. Prometheus will no doubt satisfy the Avatar generation, but I'm doubtful it will provide the quantum leap forward for science fiction that Scott has been hinting at. On the other hand, it might just be this year's Star Trek, which most people forgave its mainstream sensibilities due to the sheer vim and verve of the story. John Carter is another film that everybody wants to succeed, a belated revival of the long-dead planetary romance genre, and the first live action film from Wall-E's Andrew Stanton. Previews have hinted at an Indiana Jones on Mars action-adventure take, with a smattering of Lawrence of Arabia and liberal sprinklings of Flash Gordon. It's either going to be the stuff of wonder or an almighty (very expensive) mess: Heaven's Gate in space, if you like. My fingers are crossed hard for the former. And any new science-fiction film from Children of Men's Alfonso Cuarón must be worth a mention on this post. Very little is known about Gravity, other than that it stars Sandra Bullock and George Clooney as surviving astronauts in a damaged space station and arrives in November. The film is Cuarón's first 3D effort, though it's reportedly being converted in post-production. My gut feeling about the first part of The Hobbit is that it won't quite reach the standard of Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy, but will provide more than enough moments of Middle Earth magic to keep fans happy. It may end up adopting a darker, more epic approach than JRR Tolkien's whimsical little fable, and I worry whether how all those dwarves are going to be made to look 4ft8" when most are probably approaching 6ft. Yet Jackson knows what he's doing with this material and Martin Freeman should make a suitably amiable yet curmudgeonly Bilbo Baggins. Snow White and the Huntsman, from ad director Rupert Sanders, already looks like a triumph of style over substance, and there must be a good reason why Johnny Depp, Viggo Mortensen and Hugh Jackman all turned down the male lead. Swords-and-sandals sequel Wrath of the Titans could prove the death knell for the genre's brief revival following Immortals' critical drubbing and lukewarm box office take last year. Let's hope Clash of the Titans' famously inept 3D transfer isn't repeated: no one knows what Greek gods looked like, but they almost certainly didn't resemble cardboard cutouts glued awkwardly to the cinema screen. There are likely to be no winners here. Let's hope that 2012 proves to be the year in which studios realise they cannot just harness brands to the Hollywood blockbuster machine and sit back. The first GI Joe (read Action Man, UK types) film was a sickly, vapid hotchpotch of action movie cliches about a deeply sinister Team America-style force sent into international hotspots to take out the bad guys. Almost none of the original cast members are returning, which means Joseph Gordon-Levitt, who spent most of the previous film transforming into main bad guy Cobra Commander, has inexplicably morphed into The Mummy's Arnold Vosloo. Battleship, directed by Hancock's Peter Berg, looks even more insipid. Creatives apparently realised, belatedly, that a board game's dynamics might not lend itself to the most thrilling of movies, and so plumped for the last resort: they sent in the aliens. I can't for the life of me remember any extra terrestrials in the original game, but maybe they were in the deluxe edition. Which fanboy-friendly films are you looking forward to in 2012? And which will not be benefiting from your patronage? • This article was amended on 17 January 2012. A trailer for World War Z was removed as it was fake; we've replaced it with a real one for Hunger Games. 