 Nadal wins 7-6, 6-4, 6-2 Well, after a highly competitive and entertaining first set, that was something of a disappointment. Nadal won't care though - ironically (in an Alanis Morrisette kind of way), after all his struggles with the schedule this week, Nadal, who is positively beaming, is the first man through to the semi-finals and can now put his feet up as Federer et al battle for the right to join him there. One thing is for certain: he is not going to be easy to beat. Thanks for your emails, I'm off to score some tennis, Mike. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 6-4, 5-2 Nadal has a match-point, but his attempted winner lands in the roughed-up ground behind the baseline rather than on the baseline itself. Berdych prolongs the match by one game with a couple of laudable cross-court backhands. "I couldn't agree more about how impressive Nadal's adjustments for grass are," writes Pete Thomas. "One more thing I think he's changed slightly this year is his grip, particularly on his serve. Last year here (and on clay) his racket was virtually at right angles to his forearm on the serve and despite his obvious strength he wasn't getting much pace. He's altered the grip a little this year, it extends much more in the same direction as his arm and suddenly he's serving at 131mph! Also how exceptional is the mullet of Berdych's coach?" It's a beaut, Pete - reminiscent of the great (sic) Czech striker Tomas Skuhravy in the early 90s. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 6-4, 5-1 With Nadal now one game from victory, I've finally managed to work out how to listen to the commentary of this match through the internet. "Nadal's clearly on form today but having watched him struggle in those five setters, it does make me think if it wasn't for the Fed Express this tournament would be wide open (and consequently much more interesting), especially given the way Baghdatis and Djorkovic are playing at the moment," says David Bilyard. I wholeheartedly agree, David, but I still think Nadal will make a match of it if he progresses to the final. Does that mean we now think Federer's dominance is boring, in the same way Sampras used to be castigated for winning all the time?!? Surely not. He's too elegant a player. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 6-4, 4-1 The end is nigh, which is a relief to everyone involved. And it's thanks to Berdych, who is displaying levels of ineptitude only matched by this very page. "When the put the roof on in 2009 what will happen when it gets hit?" asks Mike Newitt, meaning it's advantage GBG. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 6-4, 3-1 "As for the history of tennis scoring, here is a background story," says Graham Dumper, who shows a flair for cutting-and-pasting that suggests he could make an excellent GBG reporter: "1. that it has its origin in medieval numerology. The number 60 was considered to be a "good" or "complete" number back then, in about the same way you'd consider 100 to be a nice round figure today. The medieval version of tennis, therefore, was based on 60 - the four points when 15, 30, 45 (which we abbreviate to 40) and 60, or game.  "Does it enlighten us - maybe? Does it explain the loss of 5 points on the 40 score? No. Does it matter? I fear not. Tennis is as tennis does - it would be more logical to just have 1,2,3,4 etc. like the Tie break, but it would also be dull, like me - wouldn't it?" Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 6-4, 2-1 Berdych holds to 15, but that phrase including the words "horse", "after", "bolted", "has" and "the" could probably be employed here. In an update on my TV dilemma, I've cannily positioned the Real Player stream in the top-right of my screen, with the article editor in which I write these updates in the bottom-left of the screen. I'm ashamed it took me five minutes to come up with that solution. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 6-4, 2-0 Hmm, unfortunately the Beeb have decided this game is over and cut to the Djokovic-Baghdatis match instead (Djokovic is a set up and it's 5-5 in the second). Which makes it rather tricky to do a game-by-game report. So I am now watching coverage on a three-inch Real Player stream, which, of course, disappears whenever I type or receive an email. I never had this problem with the Champions League MBMs! I would tell you about this game, but I'd have to make it up. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 6-4, 1-0 Just as in the first and second sets, Nadal breaks Berdych at the first opportunity here in the third thanks to a mixture of his own brilliantly destructive groundstrokes and Berdych's demoralising errors from the back of the court. McEnroe wonders why none of the crowd are crying out "come on Tomas". John, when have British tennis fans ever cheered on a player with no hope whatsoever? Eh? Oh. Nadal wins the second set 6-4 I must confess I didn't see too much of that game because I was reading your emails (darn you all) about tennis scoring. There were few exclamations from the crowd or the commentators, indicating that it was all too straightforward for Nadal. "Tennis' scoring system is indeed esoteric, but perfectly suited to building tension repeatedly - you're never far away from a 'big point'," says Gary Naylor. "It's a mystery to me why other sports haven't tried it (or variants of it). Darts is about the only example of which I can think, and that sport (yes, sport) also builds tension repeatedly and rewards the 'big-point players' over the plodders. Why don't they use it for snooker?" Very interesting thoughts, Gary. I suppose that's why we all love football so, because every "score" has such a dramatic impact on the game. "Please excuse my wife's ignorance," writes Luke Chaput de Saintonge. "Alas neither of her degrees was in British military history. Otherwise she'd have known that the scoring system in tennis derives from a game played by British naval officers in the 19th century. That game's scoring system was based on the different gun calibres of the British naval ships. When firing a salute, the ships first fired their 15-pound guns on the main deck, followed by the 30-pound guns of the middle deck, and finally by the 40-pound lower gun deck. Okay, I got that from wikipedia - but I'm sure it's true." An alternative theory: "In the beginning, both rackets and tennis scoring were used for lawn tennis," copy-and-pastes Andy McLellan. "With rackets scoring, a game comprised 15 aces, which could be won only by the server who remained 'hand in' until the loss of a rally. Tennis scoring was adopted for the first Wimbledon Championships in 1877 and became the standard. The origins of the 15, 30, 40 and so on are not known, but have medieval and French roots. One possible explanation is that the scoring system is based on the presence of a clock face at the end of the tennis court. A quarter move of the appropriate hand was made after each rest, with the score being called as 15, 30, or 45 as the case might be. As the hand was moved to 60, making the complete circuit, this was the game. The term 'deuce' is derived from the French 'deux', an advantage of two points having to be gained. 'Love' is generally taken as being derived from the French 'l'oeuf', the egg, symbolising nothing. The term 'love' can also be said to come from the English phrase 'neither for love nor for money', indicating nothing. (Taken from the book entitled The Guinness Book of Tennis Facts & Feats and Fifteen Love). That explains that then! " Is that the longest single MBM/OBO/GBG entry ever? Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 5-4 After pulling Berdych out wide with an angled backhand, Nadal advances to the net for a delicate drop-volley to set up two-set points. Berdych saves the first with the first point he has won in the forecourt (ie at the net), and then saves the second with a tremendous passing shot after Nadal's approach was a tad short. Berdych then completes his comeback in this game with two more backhand winners. It's a shame he hasn't shown such fighting spirit in the rest of this set. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 5-3 The first point of the game - climaxed by a no-nonsense down-the-line thunderbolt from Berdych - suggests the Czech might be about to step up his game, but it is a false dawn as Nadal retrieves ball after ball in the next few points until Berdych eventually loses patience. Nadal holds to 30. "Football is too much of an instinctive game to be able to commentate on, it doesn't require much intelligence when coming to tactics hence simplitistic tactics like the long-ball game being successful," says Mike Newitt. "I think this is reflected in the lower standards of commentary and postmatch interviews. I think I'm trying to say footballers can get away with being idiots because to be successful doesn't require on-field game-time analysis." Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 4-3 At the moment this match resembles a boxing bout between a big, clumsy heavyweight and a small, nippy welterweight - you expect the heavyweight to overwhelm the welterweight with a few beefy blows, but the welterweight's speed and incessant up-and-at-'em body-shots have such an effect on the morale of the heavyweight than in the end he crumbles. Berdych holds here with a couple of knockout punches, but there is an air of inevitability about his downfall. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 4-2 "You have to admire Nadal - he thinks he can win every single match," says the British commentator sat next to McEnroe, unwittingly summing up why our tennis is in the state it is. If I was world No2, I'd probably think I could win every match, too! I'm not so sure Berdych believes he can win today though. After such a bright start, he's allowing the match to quickly slip away from him by simply going through the motions. He is yet to threaten Nadal's serve in this set. "I don't understand the scoring system in tennis," says Adanna Chaput de Saintonge. "15, 30, 40 and then you win, but only if you are two points ahead or something ... and the same with sets - you have to win by two games apparently? Why? I Hold two degrees Mike - two! And I still don't get it! Am I a moron?" As I hold only one degree, Adanna, I'm afraid I am unable to comment. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 3-2 Shot of the match! Berdych played what he thought was a point-winng backhand volley, but speedy gonzalez motored across the court and played a wonderful curling, dipping, on-the-run forehand down the line. But Berdych recovers and, in his own rather more prosaic style, wins the game to 15. *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 3-1 Berdych gives the line-judge (who is kitted out for a trip to Henley after this match) a Glenn McGrath-esque stare for failing to call a Nadal shot out on the baseline. If he was so upset by the call, or lack of it, why not challenge? It's immaterial anyway as Nadal cruises to another easy hold, twice approaching the net for crisp volleys. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 2-1 An improved service game from Berdych, punctuated with a couple of aces down the middle. He still has a permanent scowl on his face, but he walks to his chair with more of a spring in his step than five minutes ago. "American sportsmen and sportswomen progress through a school and college education system that foregrounds speaking as much as writing - unlike the UK's," says Gary Naylor. "And only in this country are the technical aspects of sport deemed less important than 'passion'. Hence you have McEnroe and Johnson on the one hand and Wright and Shearer on the other." *Nadal leads Berdych 7-6, 2-0 "You cannot be serious!" hisses McEnroe as the sun emerges above. Nadal thrashes down a 131mph serve, which for him is almost unprecedented (even if it's commonplace for Venus Williams). It's a sign of how hard he's been working on his grass-court game to try to fulfil his publically-stated ambition of winning Wimbledon (he has even had a grass court built in his back garden for that very purpose). Nadal is thoroughly dominating proceedings at the moment. Nadal leads Berdych* 7-6, 1-0 Berdych starts the set with a double-fault, and then is blown away by Nadal's relentless groundstrokes. And then - and this is something I've never seen before - he aborts his service swing at the last possible nanosecond because the ball had been pushed out of his reach by the increasing wind. A missed easy put-away and a woeful unforced error hand Nadal the perfect start to the second set. "Who does Nadal support in Spanish football?" asks Rob Hisnay. Despite being from Majorca (who have their own La Liga team) and his uncle having played for Barcelona, Rafa supports Real Madrid. What's that? Glory-hunter, you say? Nadal wins the first 7-6 (7-1) The sign of greatness - when you have to raise your level, you do. Nadal, as he proved in the last two rounds, has that knack. "As brother of Pete Thomas (game 9), I'm supporting not-Berdych, as Pete is simply not allowed to get another sporting tip right," says Andi (why not Andy, Andi) Thomas. After that tie-break, you look safe. "He's been talking Berdych up since well before the tournament and needs to be taken down a peg or two. Indeed, he's only ever been wrong once - 'He's crap, that Andrew Strauss' - and recent form is starting to prove him right. Plus, I'm at work, and he's not. Gah!" First-set tie-break: Nadal 6-1 Berdych* Berdych's best shot of the tie-break so far is a canny slice into the waiting hands of the Berdych ... after he's already lost the point. Five set points. First-set tie-break: *Nadal 5-0 Berdych The wind is wreaking havoc on these rallies, but Nadal is coping better than his bulky opponent by moving his feet quicker. First-set tie-break: Nadal 3-0 Berdych* A double-fault and an overhit backhand give Nadal the advantage. First-set tie-break: *Nadal 1-0 Berdych The wind helps Nadal's sliced serve move halfway across the right-sided service box by the time it hits the back wall - the perfect serve. First set: Nadal 6-6 Berdych* Nervy moments for Berdych as Nadal plays a "goodly" forehand and then a "skookum" backhand to move up 0-30. Ah, perhaps not that nervy - Berdych squares with two aces. He wins the fifth point by latching onto an overhit Nadal drop-shot, and rounds off the game with another "king-size" forehand. Tie-break. First set: *Nadal 6-5 Berdych It's Nadal's turn to exhibit his "full-toned" forehand (an apt description in this case) with some ferocious hitting. The organisers must be starting to panic - they've already been playing for 50 minutes, and we're not even through the first of five sets yet. Nadal might be having his revenge on the schedule. First set: Nadal 5-5 Berdych* So as not to appear repetitive, I just tapped "booming" into thesaurus.com. So I can now tell you that an "upmarket" forehand from Berdych (who has the strongest forehand on tour, according to McEnroe), dominates this game, it alone producing three winners. First set: *Nadal 5-4 Berdych "Already you get the feeling this match is almost entirely down to Berdych," says Pete Thomas. "Like Ivanisevic in 2001, if he can keep a healthy first serve %age and once a set string 3 or 4 returns together to break then I'm not sure how much Nadal will be able to do about it." He doesn't string those three or four returns together in this game as Nadal holds to love. Oh, and Berdych's first-serve percentage is down at 46% at the moment - as you say, he needs to up that. "Couldn't agree more about McEnroe, I was torn between the two matches this morning but the truly awful Greg 'every comment is a rhetorical question' Rusedski is commentating on the other one, so the decision was made for me." First set: Nadal 4-4 Berdych* A confident hold from Berdych with Nadal unable to read his serve. This has the makings of another five-set classic. First set: *Nadal 4-3 Berdych It is very impressive how Nadal has adapted his natural clay-court game to the grass courts by standing inside the baseline to return serves, occasionally serve-and-volleying, and even chip-and-charging, as he does in the first point of this game - clinically punching a volley into the open court. However, he makes an uncharacteristic mistake with his booming forehand (my Andy Bull made a valid point yesterday: why are forehands always described as booming? We agreed ours were more whimpering than anything), to gift Berdych a break-point ... but he's unable to convert because of a couple of booming backhands from Nadal. "Rafa must be sick of being surrounded by British people mainly interested in eating and drinking to excess, failing even to attempt to converse with him in Spanish and whinging about the weather spoiling their fortnight," writes Gary Naylor. "He'll be glad to get home to, er ... Majorica." First set: Nadal 3-3 Berdych* Another game to love - both players are finding their rhythm now. Berdych proves McEnroe wrong by showing that, much like Peter Crouch, he does in fact have a good touch for a big man with a perfectly-weighted drop-shot. First set: *Nadal 3-2 Berdych "It looks as if we could have the first four men's seeds in the semis," writes Mike Adamson, which isn't quite the amazing coincidence it seems - he's my dad. And yes, it can be confusing us both having the same name. "When was the last time that happened?" Anyone know? I'm a little busy to look it up. "The tables may be turning - it used to be the women's which was as predictable." The fifth game of this match follows a more predictable path, with Nadal holding to love. First set: Nadal 2-2 Berdych* Is it a coincidence that the two best commentators/pundits that the BBC has (John McEnroe and Michael Johnson) are American? They exude expertise and knowledge in such a professional, forthright and confident manner that they leave their colleagues across all sports, particularly football, trailing in their wake. But I'm meant to be commentating on the tennis and not the commentators, so I'll inform you that Berdych holds to 30 despite failing to get a single first service in. Both players are struggling with their serve because the wind is affecting their high ball-toss. First set: *Nadal 2-1 Berdych "A few questions to ponder," from Nick Hughes. "Is Berdych the real deal on grass? Will Nadal's schedule finally catch up with him? Are the Wimbledon crowd sports-savvy enough to taunt Uncle Nadal about his Euro 96 penalty miss? Did Zat Knight really win an England cap?" Starting with Knight and working backwards: a sad indictment of our national sport, no (but that doesn't mean we can't), no (he's the fitttest player on tour and even advised the organisers on how they should schedule tomorrow's play - the sign of a confident man), John McEnroe thinks not ("Berdych is a bit mechanical like Ivan Lendl was. He doesn't have great mobility, he's not comfortable at the net and he often relies on brute force"). That said, Berdych breaks back immediately here by displaying the kind of variety of play Mac says he lacks - drop-shots, fiery returns, approaching the net etc. With break-points in all three games so far, this has the feel of a woman's match. First set: Nadal 2-0 Berdych* It doesn't take long for Nadal to get his eye in, thrashing two returns back past the stranded Berdych to set up two break-points. He wins the second of them after again overpowering the Czech from the back of the court. First set: *Nadal 1-0 Berdych There are more people on the grassy area (including line-judges, ball-boys etc) than there are in the stands to see Nadal fire down the first serve of the day. It's a competitive first game with Berdych forcing Nadal into a couple of errors to set up a break-point, but an ace denies him a dream start. And then Nadal holds with a well-disguised drop-shot. Incidentally, the wind is swirling around chilly Centre Court, though Nadal still sees the need to towel down his face after every point. His idosyncrasies between points are the equivalent of Sergio Garcia's (and Jose Maria Olazabal's - maybe it's a Spanish thing?) repeated aborted backswings. The best thing about game-by-game reports is that nobody (apart from Gary Naylor, of course) emails in. Meaning that we can actually watch the sport in question. It is anticipated that we'll have a full day's play with no rain interruptions, though the dark clouds hanging around London look a tad menacing. Teams Nadal Rafael Nadal, Miguel Angel Nadal, King Juan Carlos, Nike Capri pants, asteroid 128036 Rafaelnadal Berdych Tomas Berdych, Lucie Safarova, Mr and Mrs Berdych, the Charles Bridge, Madeleine Albright HOLD THE BACK PAGE Zat Knight signs two-year contract extension at Fulham. Is that the worst Sky Sports News yellow ticker breaking news ever? There's been some debate around the GU Sports desk this morning And it's not just confined to whether the Sun's Nikki, 21, Basildon is a better journalist than the Daily Star's Debbie, 24, Milton Keynes. The argument has centred around whether Henley Regatta is a more worthwhile sporting event to attend this weekend than the Tour de France prologue, the British grand prix, the England v West Indies ODI at Trent Bridge, the World Series of Poker, or the Greyhound Derby. I won't name and shame those putting forward the case for Henley. Preamble Morning everyone. Now if you had won tickets for Centre Court in the Wimbledon ballot, you'd be pretty pleased at the moment. Not only do you get to see both Rafa Nadal and Roger Federer, but there's the additional bonus of the pick of the women's semi-finals. The first game up is Nadal v Tomas Berdych, who is tipped for an upset here. Not only did the young Czech win the Wimbledon warm-up event at Halle last month, but he is also (and this is a good stat, by the way) the only player to have defeated both Federer and Nadal since they reached their current positions at No1 and No2 respectively in the ATP world rankings. 