The larger Sainsbury’s outlets will look increasingly like department stores as they try to fight back against the rise of the discounters with more services and non-food beside the groceries, according to the supermarket chain’s chief executive. Unveiling the new Sainsbury’s in south London, its first to feature both a Habitat and an Argos – bought nearly six weeks ago in the £1.4bn acquisition of Home Retail Group – Mike Coupe said supermarkets needed to be flexible to compete in a rapidly changing market. “Whatever has has happened in the last five years will be speeded up and happening faster again in the next five years,” he said. Coupe said the rise of online shopping and a move towards buying food regularly at small local stores meant big supermarkets had to do more to persuade people to visit. Last month, Sainsbury’s revealed a 1.1% fall in sales at established stores in the three months to the end of September as it was forced to cut food prices in the latest round of an ongoing industry price war. “We are never going to be John Lewis or go down that road but we have tried to change our look and feel so that we are less like a supermarket and more like a department store,” he said. At the new site in Battersea, Sainsbury’s Tu clothing brand has 9,500 sq ft of space set out to look like a high street store, and there is also a sushi counter run by Sushi Gourmet, separate counters for fresh meat, cheese, cakes and pizza, Habitat and Argos concessions and an Explore Learning children’s tuition centre. A Starbucks coffee shop is set to open in the store soon. Coupe said that in a traditional supermarket sales of clothing were driven by price but now Sainsbury’s was able to sell premium products that were stylish and fashionable. It dropped a collection designed by Gok Wan this season but will continue to work with the TV stylist who will pick recommendations from the Tu range, to be highlighted in stores and online.  Sainsbury’s is planning to install five Habitat outlets in its stores by Christmas, including in St Albans and Solihull. John Rogers, the new boss of Argos, said the group could potentially open tens more outlets in Sainsbury’s stores and was also mulling whether to open new standalone stores. Coupe said: “Habitat is extending traditional supermarket prices to places customers wouldn’t expect. You can’t just sell products in isolation, you have to sell them in the right environment.” The Sainsbury’s department store model also includes the installation of Argos outlets, 14 more of which will go into stores by Christmas taking the total to 30. Coupe said he hoped all Sainsbury’s stores would eventually include at least some space for Argos, even if it was just a pick-up point for goods ordered online. The company has even experimented with temporary Argos pop-ups at festivals. But Sainsbury’s has yet to reveal how many Argos outlets it will relocate from the high street to its supermarkets although it has said that 200 to 300 store jobs are likely to be eliminated through relocations. So far just one store – in Oldham – has relocated and Coupe said all Argos staff had transferred. The average length of the lease on an Argos store is just four years, and Rogers said some were much shorter. But he said no firm decision on closure of Argos outlets had yet been taken. 