 So Warney is still king of all he surveys. It takes more than last year's adulatory farewell to Tests in Sydney to keep a monarch down and I wonder whether he views with a wry smile the current state of the Australia team, now that the full impact of the absence of any spinner of quality has become apparent, Stuart MacGill having also called it a day. Less hysterical observers have noted that, while there is history of resurrection stretching back several thousand years, it doesn't generally work well in sport, although if anyone in cricket could manage it, Shane could. But then why would he? It's a nice line to string the media along for a while but surely now there is too much dosh to be made elsewhere and too many poker tables on which to lose it again. Warne's latest incarnation, leading the Rajasthan Royals to success in the Indian Premier League, has put paid to the notion that anyone with a bottomless pit of money can buy their way to instant success. Warne's team were certainly not composed of bumpkin cricketers punching above their weight, and they had some big players. They might have come cheaper than some of their rivals but they were by no means cheap. Unlike their rivals though, and at the behest of Warne, they were chosen according to their potential value to the team rather than simply for being mega-moneyed Bollywood status symbols. It was then left to Warne, and his backroom boys, Darren Berry and Jeremy Snape, to coax solid team performances all round and, ultimately, they had the player of the tournament in another blonde Shane, Watson. What might Warne have done for Hampshire in that regard had he deigned to play Twenty20 cricket for them instead of sitting out all but a single match? It has been said that Warne's approach was singularly old-fashioned for a society fast becoming one of the most hi-tech on earth, with computer analysis going out of the window, to be replaced by the nous that comes with experience. However, Warne concentrated on what his side could do, on their own strengths, rather than what the opposition might do. Twenty20 doesn't lend itself to over-analysis anyway - there is simply not time. But Warne's captaincy would have been as innovative and proactive as his bowling was for all those years.  It was always a contention of many of Australia's opponents over the years that whatever his shortcomings, Warne would only have enhanced their one-day side had he run the show and now he's given an inkling why. It is curious that, given a choice, Warne had a team coach in the first place, for his opinion on such is well documented. He never had time for John Buchanan for example, thinking him too clever by half. But Berry was Victoria's wicketkeeper for most of Warne's playing career so there is no lack of familiarity there. The choice of Snape is an interesting one for this is a sports psychologist as well as a cricketer of some achievement, utilised by England in the last World Cup, although that didn't pan out too well. Yet here it is necessary to understand that sportsmen of Warne's achievement and status - Tiger Woods say, or the Michaels Jordan and Johnson - reach the heights they do because instinctively they operate to a mental level that Snape and other psychologists...#65279; can only strive to instil in those languishing below genius level. The greats simply are not able to appreciate the need. The same goes for coaching. Have a look around the cricket world and the majority of the best coaches seem to be those who have not achieved at the highest level as players. The idea that this is simply because the top players have no need to go into coaching is a fatuous one. More, I think, it has to do with empathy. Viv and Barry Richards and Greg Chappell, for example, are enthralling exalted batting tutors, with ultimate credibility. Anyone would be daft not to listen and learn. Ultimately though (and this is surely the nub of coaching as opposed to running tutorials or masterclasses) do they really understand what it is like to struggle? I mean really struggle. I know great players who have absolutely no conception how hard it is being ordinary in extraordinary company. And that, for Warne, is surely the great personal achievement of his team's triumph. He may have marched to a different drummer all his career but somehow he has managed to get his troops in step with him. 