 Vincent Kompany wants Manchester City to be inspired by reaching the Champions League semi-final for the first time as they seek to eliminate Real Madrid, adding that their main wish is to show how good they are. While Yaya Touré will be absent for the opening leg at the Etihad Stadium on Tuesday night due to a muscle injury, Kompany stated he is “100%” fit following a knee problem. Of being driven on by facing Zinedine Zidane’s side the captain said: “We have to. It is a long hard battle to get to this stage and as much as there is a lot riding on this game, what everyone wishes within the club is that we are just able to show how good we are and then it will be a fair game. It is the first time for the club. “It is massive. I have been through a very long process with this team. To play a semi-final is something really good but you want to go to the next stage. It is really good to measure yourself against a team like Real Madrid and see how far you have got.” The Belgian shrugged off the threat of Cristiano Ronaldo, who is an injury concern for Real due to a recent thigh problem. “I don’t know,” said Kompany. “It is one of those things, you are in a press conference, and you play against Barcelona or Real you know you are going to get a question about Ronaldo or [Lionel] Messi and the answer is always going to be the same, if you play really well as a team you have a chance of stopping him and if not he will probably score a goal.” Kompany was defiant about his injury-plagued season. “People talk about my injuries but I talk about my comebacks,” the 30-year-old said. “That is what I have in my head. People talk about 14 injuries to my calf and I talk about 14 times I have come back and play like I have never been away. It takes a lot of strength of character to do that.” Kompany would not answer whether he is changing boot manufacturer to try and ensure he does not suffer more problems. “I don’t think that is something I can comment on for now,” he said. Pellegrini confirmed Touré is unavailable. “He is going be out, Yaya. He has not recovered from the muscle injury,” said Pellegrini. “Whenever they have played the two Brazilians [Fernandinho and Fernando] have played well and had some very good games in Europe. For example against Paris Saint-Germain and Roma. I am very confident in what they can provide for us.” 