 Attempts by European governments to push for tighter controls on the spread of radicalisation and terror content online are being resisted by the biggest tech companies including Facebook, Google and Twitter. A meeting held on Wednesday in Luxembourg between senior executives from the companies and EU officials heard growing concern expressed by ministers over the extent to which extremists are spreading videos and using social media accounts to try to radicalise and recruit people. But the US-owned technology companies are resisting calls to proactively prevent content being added to their systems, either by checking content before it becomes publicly visible or banning certain groups ahead of any complaints. Separately, the security services are pushing for better access to details about terror suspects’ use of social media. The European Commission said that the meeting would focus on “the challenges posed by terrorists’ use of the internet and possible responses, tools and techniques to respond to terrorist online activities, with particular regard to the development of specific counter-narrative initiatives.” The meeting came against a backdrop in which Theresa May has been pushing in Europe for more measures to tackle the flow of would-be jihadi fighters to Iraq and Syria. In a statement after the meeting on Wednesday, the EC said the meeting with Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft was part of a forum announced in January 2014 to “discuss the challenges posed by the terrorist propaganda on the internet” and that participants “discussed various possibilities of addressing the challenges”. They agreed to “organise joint training and awareness raising workshops of the law enforcement authorities, internet industry and civil society.” One focus is the use of the YouTube video sharing site, owned by Google, to post videos of murders by IS of hostages. Google says that it removes any “channels” used to post such content when it is alerted about them. But because its system relies on users flagging unsuitable content, rather than checking it ahead of time - a task that it says would be impossible because of the sheer volume of content being uploaded every second - it relies heavily on “trusted flaggers” to signal terrorist content. Twitter has also removed links to videos and pictures of executions carried out by IS, and closed down accounts used by people suspected of supporting terrorist activities. None of the technology companies at the meeting would discuss the outcome on the record. Of the push by security services for more access to the accounts of terror suspects, one source at a major technology company told the Guardian that after the Snowden revelations there needed to be clear lines over government access: “We agree that there needs to be a balance between user privacy and the need for the security services to seek out terrorists, and governments can require access to accounts,” said the source. “But we don’t think that mass surveillance is the right way to go about it.” 