 Nationality: American. Age: 23. Lives: Palm Beach Gdns, US. Height: 6ft 1in. Weight: 11st 6lb. Turned pro: 1994. Tournaments won: 29 (4 grand slams). Wimbledons: 6 since 1997Best performance: winner 2000, 2001. Career prize money: £7,564,100. World ranking: 3 (highest 1). On court In a nutshell The taller, older and slightly pottier of the Williamses. Swept all before her in 2000 and 2001 but was swept aside by her sister's Cinderella act last year. Venus, who slipped to world No3, is no longer the belle of the ball. Grass or pass Claims to be a natural serve-and-volleyer (then again, her father once claimed to be buying the Rockefeller Centre), but is always happiest at the back of the court. Distinguishing feature When pushed, does not so much grunt as shriek like a cornered jackal. And for someone who has won £7.5m, you'd think she could afford a bigger frock. Hot shot Serves like a rocket, taking no prisoners. Unless she's playing her own family, that is. Pressure point She's 6ft 1in, her sister does a good impression of Mike Tyson's angrier twin and her father might know where you live and could certainly find out. Not to be messed with. Outside court Hero or zero Has taken the backlash from the Williams' success - at last year's US Open, with Serena already through to the final, her home crowd cheered for France's Amélie Mauresmo to beat her in the semis. Of course, she still won. Happy clappies The players' box will be full to overflowing with mother Oracene, Oracene's hair-do, a possible four sisters and the occasional appearance from father/coach/signwriter Richard. Apparently her sister Isha, a lawyer, once took a part-time course in surgery. Be afraid, be very afraid. Don't mention The 2001 Indian Wells event, when a then dominant Venus pulled out of her semi-final against Serena citing injury and incurred the wrath of a conspiracy-happy public. British claim Allowed the LTA to toy with the idea of having her and her sister promote inner-city tennis in Britain. The sisters giggled, the LTA got in a fluster then the accountants moved in. That's why Ian Wright promotes British tennis and the sisters win trophies. Luvvy rating 1/10, reciprocal voting and all that.  The winning formula sibling rivalry x splendid service + dress collection = hand-written sign frenzy 