If you could enter into the mindset of one of the great established American film-makers of our age – into the movies they make, and the personal creative vortex they emerge from – who would you chose? Would it be mechanical David Fincher, the Kubrickian 80-takes man, once accused of using actors like mere “hues” in his palette? Would it be the inscrutable Paul Thomas Anderson, daring you to love his increasingly fractured movies? Or the mind of on-set screamer David O Russell, whose work exhibits, movie by movie, an extreme waxing and waning of directorial surehandedness? I’d choose the quiet life, and the organic and artisanal work of Richard Linklater, who’s well profiled by fellow Austin scene-maker Louis Black in Richard Linklater: Dream Is Destiny. The film weaves a neat cat’s cradle of narrative back and forth across Linklater’s career, starting on the set of his newest film Everybody Wants Some!! (sequel of sorts to his third feature Dazed & Confused), then cutting back to the hardscrabble economics and sense of collaboration that got his $23,000 indie pacesetter Slacker made. Threaded throughout the movie are the 12-year filming process of Boyhood, and the three romantic stepping stones that form the trilogy Before Sunrise/Sunset/Midnight. I’d almost forgotten that Linklater was deemed back then to have invented “the slacker generation”, and was lumbered for a while with that career-millstone role of being deemed its spokesman. Our understanding of him as an artist took a while to ripen – as his repertoire widened to show his range – in much the way the movies themselves grow with repeated viewings. As he developed, you began to notice how French he was, or at least how much warmth he shared with humanists such as Renoir or Truffaut; then how homemade and hand-crafted his movies felt (literally, in the case of the post-animated Waking Life and A Scanner Darkly); how he’s always had his own John Wayne (Matthew McConaughey) and Henry Fonda (Ethan Hawke); and how he strives for the unforced small dramatic moment – think of the wordless listening-booth scene in Before Sunrise – that somehow discloses everything. All this without film school, only what he learned from making it up with his friends as he went along. Linklater, the happy autodidact, is the least referential director of his generation; happy to be himself and no one else. He, more than anyone his age, is making movies not about other movies, but about life itself; two words that could be the title of almost any one of his works. Richard Linklater: Dream Is Destiny is in cinemas from Friday  