Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
16:35
 The report on the restoration of the Houses of Parliament lacks credibility. It does not put all options on the table - it does not consider a new build parliament when it must scrutinise all possible options - and it is based on figures which were proposed in 2014. The UK government will effectively be asking taxpayers to pay a Westminster premium to crowbar a modern parliament into a Victorian building at a time of austerity when Tory policy is hitting some of the poorest in society, and political uncertainty when this UK government has no plan for the UK outside the European Union. Today’s report publication is just the start of the process, parliament and the public now have the opportunity to debate whether spending billions of pounds to keep parliament in a palace is the right thing to do, when it is clearly not a good use of taxpayer’s money. That’s all from me for now. Later I will be covering Jeremy Corbyn and Owen Smith at the BBC Question Time hustings on a new blog. The programme starts at 9pm, and I will launch the blog at about 8.30pm. You will be able to find it here.  
16:26
 The New Statesman’s Stephen Bush has written a good blog about grammar schools. He says it will be particularly interesting to see what Michael Gove, the former education secretary, says about Theresa May’s proposals. Here’s an extract. The re-creation of grammar schools is a significant repudiaton for the Gove agenda that every school should achieve excellence, and if the former Secretary of State lends his voice, that will embolden MPs on the Conservative left to vote against the measure. Gove’s incentive to do so would be personal as well as political. There is no love lost between he and May, who as well as disagreeing on substantial matters of policy have wildly divergent approaches to politics.  But – and this is one of the wider difficulties for the Osborne-Gove tendency, purged en masse when May put her government together – although being defeated over grammar schools won’t have anyone opening the champagne in Number 10, being the architect of that loss would near-certainly bring about the end of Gove’s slim hopes of a return to the top table of politics. 
16:19
 The Sutton Trust, the social mobility education thinktank, has released a briefing paper on grammar schools. Here is an extract. 
16:11
 The Commons education committee has announced that it will take evidence from Justine Greening, the education secretary, next Wednesday. Neil Carmichael, the Conservative MP who chairs the committee, said: The new secretary of state has joined a department with increased responsibilities and which is already engaged in an ambitious and challenging programme of reforms. As a committee, we will press the secretary of state on her views on the role and potential expansion of grammar schools but also pick up on a wide range of issues facing schools, further education, higher education, and children’s services.   
16:07
 My colleague Sally Weale has written an analysis looking at whether it is possible to have inclusive grammar schools. 
15:55
 Philip Hammond, the chancellor, is currently giving evidence to the Lords economic affairs committee. He has just announced that the autumn statement will take place on Wednesday 23 November.  
15:40
 When Theresa May was in China a photograph was published (above) showing her at a summit meeting alongside a confident-looking chap with a long beard. An uninformed person looking at the picture may have concluded that he was in charge and that the woman beside him (Theresa May) was some sort of aide. His name is Nick Timothy, he is May’s co-chief of staff and, on the basis of today’s grammar school news, you could be forgiven for thinking he is running the country. Timothy used to be May’s chief of staff when she was home secretary and during that period he did not have a media profile. But then he left to work as head of the New Schools Network and, during that time, he spoke to the media and wrote a regular (and very good) column for ConservativeHome, which means we know a great deal about what he thinks. Two of the most surprising announcements to come from May since she became prime minister can be directly traced to his thinking. The last-minute decision to delay agreeing the new Hinkley Point nuclear power station? Timothy set out the thinking behind that in a ConservativeHome column last October, The Government is selling our national security to China. And extending grammar schools? Timothy proposed exactly that in an interview with the Daily Telegraph last November. So what else in on Timothy’s agenda? Here are five policies that he is likely to be pushing, based on what he has said in the past. 1 - Introducing tighter curbs on student visas. (Timothy wrote about that here.) 2 - Making it easier for faith schools to expand. In a ConservativeHome article Timothy wrote: The government should abolish its admissions rule for faith-designated free schools – which requires a school, when it is oversubscribed, to limit the number of pupils it accepts on the basis of faith to fifty per cent – and replace it with a more effective approach. The existing rule fails according to its own objective: it does little to increase the diversity of Jewish, Muslim, Sikh and Hindu schools, because for now at least they are unlikely to appeal to parents of other faiths. But the rule is effectively discriminatory for Roman Catholics: it prevents them from opening new free schools because it is almost certainly against canon law for a Catholic Bishop to set up a school that turned away Catholic pupils on the basis of their Catholicism. Given that there is growing demand for Roman Catholic schools, which are more likely to be ethnically diverse than other schools, more likely to be in poor areas, more likely to be rated Good or Outstanding by Ofsted, and more likely to provide what parents want, the rule should be replaced by a legal duty on faith schools to ensure that their pupils mix – perhaps through sport, performing arts, or school visits – with children of other backgrounds. 3 - Making welfare more contributions-based. In another article Timothy said one problem with the Conservative election defeat of 1906 was that it led to plans for contributions-based welfare backed by his hero Joe Chamberlain being shelved. In 1906, MPs behaved as though their identities as free traders and tariff reformers were more important than as Unionists, and the consequences of their defeat continue to be felt even now. The Lloyd George ‘People’s Budget’ of 1908 introduced a non-contributory pension system – unlike the contributions-based proposal made by Chamberlain that was rejected by Salisbury and Balfour – and our welfare state to this day remains non-contributory (a fact that is, coincidentally, relevant to the debate about EU nationals claiming benefits in Britain). As my colleague Heather Stewart has already reported, May’s new director of policy, John Godfrey, is also interested in social insurance systems that create stronger links between what individuals pay and the welfare they get.  4 - More housebuilding. In another ConservativeHome article Timothy wrote: Often – on aspects of welfare reform, the increase in the minimum wage, and the investment in the Northern Powerhouse and the (excruciatingly badly-branded) Midlands Engine – the Government has got these calls right. But when it comes to energy policy, house building, high immigration, cuts to tax credits, the protection of pensioner benefits, and the profile of spending cuts, it has not. 5 - A full inquiry into Orgreave. The Home Office is still considering calls for a full inquiry into Orgreave, but Timothy said in a ConservativeHome article he was in favour of a proper inquiry. The economy needed to be reformed, the unions needed to be faced down, and unprofitable pits needed to be closed. But if the police pre-planned a mass, unlawful assault on the miners at Orgreave, and then sought to cover up what they did and arrest people on trumped-up charges, we need to know. And here are two ideas that Timothy strongly supports - but which May is much less likely to back because they would involve abandoning Conservative party manifesto promises. 6 - Getting rid of the “triple lock” that ensure state pensions rise every year in line with growth or inflation or by 2.5%, whichever is higher. 7 - Abandoning plans to lift the inheritance tax threshold to £1m. In one ConservativeHome article Timothy wrote: [The chancellor] could redistribute the welfare cuts to take the pressure off low-paid, working people. But the obvious alternative is already off the table: pensioner benefits are protected and so is the “triple lock”, which means that the state pension goes up by the highest out of the growth of wages, inflation or 2.5 per cent. Another option – to demonstrate that the Government really does value hard work above all else – is to stop the inheritance tax cut for estates valued between £650,000 and £1 million. But that policy is not only a manifesto promise but a totem for the Conservative party. Updated
14:40
 Sam Freedman, who used to be a policy adviser to Michael Gove when Gove was education secretary and he is now executive director at Teach First, the organisation that gets high-powered graduates into teaching, has put out a statement strongly criticising the plans to extend grammar schools. He said: The prime minister has said that she wants to create a country that works for all, but education experts are united that the evidence shows grammar schools harm social mobility. Every child deserves the best education and our country needs all young people supported to succeed. Our focus should be on raising standards across the board to end the scandal of disadvantage determining destiny. UPDATE: I’ve corrected the post above. Freedman was a civil service policy adviser to Gove, not a special adviser as originally stated. Updated
14:17
13:50
 In the comments getoutofmydreams asks how many MPs went to grammar school and private school. I can’t find grammar school figures quickly, but here are the figures for private/state schools, by party. They are from this House of Commons library note (pdf). UPDATE: Thanks to bastu BTL. S/he has posted a link to this Sutton Trust report which says 19% of MPs in the 2015 intake went to grammar school. Updated
13:32
 Oliver Letwin, the former Cabinet Office minister who oversaw government policy when David Cameron was prime minister and who is now a backbencher, sounded rather non-committal on the World at One just now when asked about grammar schools. Cameron was opposed to opening brand new grammar schools. Letwin said that he personally was “perfectly content” to see the government explore the idea of expanding them, but he also said he was “completely agnostic” about whether one type of school was necessarily better than another. 
13:08
 Ministers are often hauled to the Commons to answer an urgent question (UQ) when the government has floated a policy idea in the media but has not yet made a formal announcement. That is exactly what happened today, when Angela Rayner, the shadow education secretary, was granted a UQ on the back of the Telegraph splash. Normally the minister just turns up and tells MPs to wait until the formal policy paper is published, and in many respects that’s what Justine Greening, the education secretary, was doing today, but these sessions can be nevertheless be quite illuminating and today’s certainly was. Here are five things we learnt. 1 - Theresa May’s plan to “bring back grammar schools” is popular with Conservative MPs - but only up to a point. Most of the Tory MPs who spoke expressed support for grammar schools. But the very first backbencher to be called, and arguably the most important on this issue, Neil Carmichael, the Conservative who chairs the Commons education committee, expressed strong reservations. Telling Greening that the UK was well down the table in international literacy and numeracy league tables, he went on: It is absolutely necessary for any discussion about grammar schools to not distract us from that fundamental task that we have of improving social mobility and making sure that we have the best use of all of the talent across the whole country and not just talk about the few. Sir Desmond Swayne, a former PPS to David Cameron and certainly no Tory leftie, told Greening that he would not fancy having to face parents in his constituency who could not get their children into a local grammar school. (See 11.14am.) And Lucy Allan, another Conservative, demanded an assurance that there would be no return to the days of the 11-plus. (See 11.07am.) 2 - Greening herself seems to sceptical about championing a grammar school renaissance. Some Labour MPs said they thought Greening sounded distinctly lukewarm about the policy she was supposed to be defending and they were right. Greening kept stressing the importance of having an open mind on the matter of educational reform and she said nothing to suggest that she is a grammar school enthusiast (while, quite cleverly, also avoiding sounding disloyal to May.) In fact, Greening even seemed reluctant to use the term “grammar school”, instead preferring to talk about selection. 3 - A full return to a grammar school system seems to be off the table - although the government is considering letting more grammar schools open and extending the principle of selection in state education. Greening was not specific about much, but she did make it very clear that the government was not planning a full return to the grammar/secondary modern era. She said: There will be no return to the simplistic, binary choice of the past where schools separate children into winners and losers, successes or failures. This government wants to focus on the future, to build on our success since 2010 and to create a truly 21st century schools system. And when asked if she would return to the days of the 11-plus, she replied: I can assure you that there will be no return to the past. This is about moving forward. This is about having a 21st century approach to our school system, precisely not one that is rooted in the 1960s and 1970s.  But Greening did say: “We do think selection can play a role.” It could be that May is keen to talk about grammar schools is because the phrase is popular with the public. (See 10.08am.) But whether the government’s proposals really do involve a large number of new grammar schools, in the traditional meaning of the word, remains to be seen. 4 - Labour is remarkably united in strongly opposing grammar schools. By my count only one Labour MP expressed some support for the government’s idea (Kate Hoey) and otherwise it was striking how MPs from all wings of the party spoke out very strongly against the idea. Angela Rayner, the shadow education secretary, was particularly effective. She told Greening: Can you tell the House what evidence you have to support your belief that grammar schools will help disadvantaged children and close the attainment gap? At a time when our schools are facing a crisis in teacher recruitment and retention, with the thousands taught in super-sized classes and schools facing real-term cuts to their budget for the first time in nearly two decades, pushing ahead with grammar schools shows a dangerous misunderstanding of the real issues facing our schools. This makes it all the more surprising that Jeremy Corbyn chose not to raise the grammar school issue at PMQs yesterday. Perhaps he chose to avoid the subject because his son attended one, and his head of strategy and communications Seumas Milne sent his children to grammar schools. Given that Corbyn’s second marriage broke up because he did not want his son to go to a grammar school, he could argue that his opposition to grammar schools is so strong and sincere that it has led to great sacrifice. But it is understandable why someone very reluctant to discuss his family in public may have decided it was a subject best avoided at PMQs. 5 - The Tories will try to turn this into an issue of what works versus ideology. Greening did not really engage with the arguments raised about grammar schools and social mobility. Instead, she just argued that it was sensible to have a debate, and she accused Labour of being dogmatic.  It would be wrong to discount how we can improve prospects for those children, especially the most disadvantaged, purely because of political dogma. If Labour is not willing to ask itself these difficult questions, how can it possibly come up with any of the solutions?  Updated
11:49
 Here is my colleague Heather Stewart on Justine Greening’s UQ. Justine Greening sounding less-than-enthusiastic about grammars in House. She's "open-minded"; no return to the "binary choice" of past. And this is from Freddie Whittaker, political reporter for Schools Week. Lots of Tory MPs shocking the nation by saying that they want grammar schools because they a) went to one or b) have them in constituency 