A three-day strike on Southern railway will continue after talks between the operator and the Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union collapsed on Wednesday. The union and Southern’s owners, Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR), are locked in a months-long dispute over the company’s plans to change the role of guards. Further strikes are expected in the coming weeks.  Charles Horton, the chief executive of GTR, met Mick Cash, the leader of the RMT, briefly on Wednesday in an effort to break the deadlock, but the talks finished with both sides venting their frustration.  Last week the union reversed its longstanding opposition to plans by GTR to change the role of conductors to “onboard safety operators” after the company threatened to sack all conductors and press ahead with its plans. The union said GTR should guarantee there is always a second member of staff to help passengers and for safety. But Horton said that in cases where the second staff member was unavailable, Southern should have the right to run a service anyway to avoid causing delays. Cash said: “RMT entered talks with Charles Horton this morning in good faith and with every intention of trying to reach an agreement. However, it became clear right from the outset that Mr Horton is refusing to stick by the assurances he gave to the media yesterday that he can ‘absolutely’ guarantee a second member of staff on all current Southern services with a conductor. “This dispute isn’t about who opens and closes the doors; it is about that absolute guarantee of a second safety-competent member of staff on these Southern services. RMT is angry and frustrated that a golden opportunity to resolve this dispute has been wrecked because Mr Horton has reneged on commitments he has given through the media. “Passengers will rightly share our anger. The programme of industrial action goes ahead with the union remaining committed to genuine and meaningful talks.”  Horton said he had made it “crystal clear” to the union that the company was moving forward to implement its proposals and any agreement had to be on the basis of these principles.  He said: “In the space of a week, we’ve now met twice for face-to-face talks to try and reach agreement but, incredibly, they have absolutely nothing new to say – today, last week, last month – which helps us move forward.  “They raise everyone’s hopes by stating they want to end the dispute, but then dash them by their continued head-in-the-sand position.” This week’s strikes went ahead despite a last-minute legal challenge to the RMT from Southern. The Association of British Commuters, formed in response to the crisis, says a second staff member is important for ensuring that disabled people can use the trains, particularly in rural stations.  “It’s essential to have someone there to look after the train, most of all for the accessibility issue,” said Emily Yates, one of the group’s co-founders.  She said Horton “seems to be coming out with contradictory statements” after he appeared to guarantee in media interviews at the weekend that all services would have an onboard supervisor. “He needs to be much clearer about what he means,” she said, adding that Horton had not explained the circumstances in which services could run staffed only by the driver. Prof Anson Jack, director of the Birmingham International Railway Academy, said: “Driver-operated only was introduced in British Rail’s days and has been running safely and effectively ever since.”  But union resistance meant that few companies had tried to introduce the system, he said. “We have to ask ourselves why this dispute is persisting and whether there are other forces at work.” 