Lena Dunham has written an essay detailing her feelings about the election result, urging people not to agnonize but to organize. The creator and star of the hit HBO show Girls was a vocal campaigner for Hillary Clinton and detailed her disappointment and shock that reality TV star Donald Trump was elected by the American people. “It’s a privilege to be heartbroken by the system for the first time at age 30,” she wrote in her newsletter Lenny. “So many people – those in the prison system, those with undocumented American relatives, those who are trans, who are queer, who are people of color, who are Muslim, who are trying to prosecute their abusers – have felt the crushing failure of the system over and over again. This is just another dark week. This isn’t surreal like a death or a bad diagnosis. This is their life.” Dunham also spoke about the online abuse she’d received while campaigning for Clinton and the victory that’s now been handed to these same people.  “Over the year and a half I worked on the campaign, I received threats and abuse at a level I could not have imagined,” she wrote. “My Twitter mentions went from rude to downright violent. My phone was hacked, and I was sent images of aborted fetuses, weapons. I was called a fat whore, a retard, told I should be killed in front of everyone who knew me.” She went on to describe how “painful” it now is knowing that these people have now been rewarded for such behavior. But she also spared anger for the majority of white women who voted for Trump. “It’s painful to know that white women, so unable to see the unity of female identity, so unable to look past their violent privilege, and so inoculated with hate for themselves, showed up to the polls for him, too,” she wrote. “My voice was literally lost when I woke up, squeaky and raw, and I ached in the places that make me a woman, the places where I’ve been grabbed so carelessly, the places we are struggling to call our own.” Dunham called it a week for mourning but once Sunday is over, people need to start the fight. “Now, more than ever, our power is in numbers and in our refusal to accept the idea that our leaders intrinsically know what’s best for us, better than the people we meet every day,” she wrote. “In this new reality, we have all been radicalized. It’s no longer a word for those living on the fringes. It’s a word for everyone who walks in pain with the results of this election, who feels their identity being crushed under the weight of the half of the country who voted for a man who denounces and denies the basic rights of women, the queer community, immigrants, Muslims, people of color and the differently abled. We’ve been radicalized and therefore we’ve been deputized to do our parts.” Her words echo those of other celebrities who have spoken out about the result. Jennifer Lawrence wrote an impassioned essay calling on people not to be afraid but to “be loud” while Amy Schumer shared an Instagram post calling Trump voters out as “kicking and screaming babies”. 