 A war of words has broken out between technology giants after Microsoft accused Google of putting consumers at risk by publicising a vulnerability in its Windows code. The row centres on a fix for a flaw discovered in Windows 8.1 by Google on 13 October and reported to Microsoft. The search company has a self-imposed 90-day deadline for fixing security problems it finds under the Project Zero initiative. It is intended to prompt software groups to resolve issues more quickly or risk the embarrassment of Google exposing the failing to the world. That is precisely what happened this week when Microsoft failed to meet the deadline and the bug report was automatically published online by Google. In November Microsoft told Google that it expected to release patches for the issue in February, but then accelerated the target date to this month after being informed that the “90-day deadline is fixed for all vendors and bug classes and so cannot be extended”.  While there is no love lost between Microsoft and Google, the inflexibility of the deadline is what has particularly upset Microsoft, which has long released fixes on a monthly basis on “Patch Tuesday”.  Chris Betz, senior director of research, used a blog post to take aim at Google: “The decision feels less like principles and more like a ‘gotcha’, with customers the ones who may suffer as a result. What’s right for Google is not always right for customers.” He added: “We ask that researchers privately disclose vulnerabilities to software providers, working with them until a fix is made available before sharing any details publically. It is in that partnership that customers benefit the most. Policies and approaches that limit or ignore that partnership do not benefit the researchers, the software vendors, or our customers. It is a zero sum game where all parties end up injured.” Google declined to comment. Wolfgang Kandek, chief technology officer at security firm Qualys, said he expected more instances of “this type of miscommunication” until the two companies could reach some agreement on issues such as the flexibility of 90-day deadlines and how critical the flaw was.  “If I have the patch but will not release it until my monthly patch date, does that count? Feedback from the IT administrators will be very important for both Microsoft and Google,” he added. Software developers also appeared to side with Microsoft, with one writing on Google’s site: “Disclosing this may have been the right thing to do. Doing so based on an automated deadline with zero context from Google strikes me as much less so. It seems to me that the relationship between Google & MSFT’s respective security teams is fairly poor. Seeing things like this certainly goes a way to explaining why.” Unusually for this month’s Patch Tuesday, Microsoft released fixes for Windows alone - including one marked as critical - but none for Internet Explorer. Kandek described the move as surprising given there was a fix for the browser every month last year. The issue at the centre of the row was not described as serious. • Is it worth upgrading to Windows 8.1? 