Shares in some of Britain’s biggest estate agencies fell sharply on Wednesday as the chancellor used his first autumn statement to ban upfront fees charged by letting agents. Roughly £70m was wiped off the combined value of Foxtons and Countrywide after Philip Hammond confirmed a clampdown to prevent tenants from being forced to pay administrative costs for simple things such as inventory and reference checks. The move by Hammond to ban letting fees for people who rent their homes forms part of the government’s ambition to do more for Britain’s so-called “Jams” – those families “just about managing”. Foxtons was the sector’s biggest faller, with shares down almost 14%. Countrywide was down 6%, while LSL Property and Savills also fell. The Association of Residential Letting Agents reacted with anger to the changes. David Cox, its managing director, said it would be counterproductive because the costs would be passed on to landlords who would, in turn, raise rents. He said: “A ban on letting agent fees is a draconian measure, and will have a profoundly negative impact on the rental market.  “It will be the fourth assault on the sector in just over a year, and do little to help cash-poor renters save enough to get on the housing ladder. This decision is a crowd-pleaser, which will not help renters in the long term. All of the implications need to be taken into account.” Announcing his autumn statement to parliament, Hammond said fees charged often spiralled to hundreds of pounds. He said: “In the private rental market, letting agents are currently able to charge unregulated fees to tenants. This is wrong. Landlords appoint letting agents and landlords should meet their fees. So I can announce today that we will ban fees to tenants as soon as possible.” Neil Wilson, a market analyst at ETX, said it was another blow for the sector, which had already been hit hard following the UK’s Brexit vote in June. He said: “News of a ban on charging fees to tenants comes as a hammer blow to embattled estate agents. Shares in estate agents opened sharply lower as the government plans to ban upfront fees charged by letting agents.  “Estate agents have suffered since the Brexit vote – shares in Foxtons are still trading down around 30% from their pre-referendum level amid falling client activity. Countrywide stock is now worth a third of what it was in May 2015.” 