Game developers say Sony is readying a new version of PlayStation 4 with 4K compatibility and more processing power. If it’s true, is it a good idea? 
 On Friday afternoon, video game news site Kotaku dropped a fascinating story. Sony is rumoured to be working on an upgraded version of PlayStation 4 complete with support for the emerging 4K resolution, and more processing power to cope with the demands of virtual reality. Kotaku cited unnamed developers as the source of its report, and claims to have overheard discussions between programmers about the new “PlayStation 4.5” during the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco last week (where the hardware was allegedly being revealed in closed demos to key studios). It’s not clear whether the new format is an upgrade that attaches to the existing PS4 or a completely new replacement, but Sony has, of course, said that it won’t comment on rumours and speculation. So let’s say it’s happening. In some ways, it would be a surprise. For the last 30 years the console manufacturers have prospered on a single business model: release one piece of hardware, with set specifications and support it for several years. This way, the consumers know they have a machine that will play all the games they buy for the entire lifespan of the machine; at the same time, game developers have a fixed architecture to aim at, which makes the process more straightforward than in the PC gaming sector, where there’s a vast array of hardware possibilities to support. But times have changed. In the years since the last console generation (the Xbox 360, PS3 and Nintendo Wii), we’ve seen the indomitable rise of the smartphone industry, with its near-annual hardware iterations. We’ve also seen the renaissance of the PC as a gaming platform, thanks to the explosion of the Steam digital distribution platform. A growing number of consumers have got used to the idea of much shorter consumer electronics lifecycles, and are demanding very high specifications from their gaming equipment. Although Xbox One and PlayStation 4 were near the cutting edge when they were released two years ago, they now lag far behind the latest gaming PCs (though it has to be said, at a fraction of the price). So Sony and Microsoft are finding themselves having to adapt to new industry where seven years feels like a really long time. Indeed, it was Microsoft that was the first to hint that the Xbox One in its current form may not be the machine consumers will be playing in 2020. At the Xbox Spring Showcase, Xbox chief Phil Spencer hinted that the company was considering updating and upgrading its machine in the future. Spencer suggested that the emerging Universal Windows Platform would allow cross-play with Windows 10 PCs, effectively making games device agnostic. “This cycle is different,” says Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology. “The latest consoles use standardised components meaning that upgrades could be possible relatively easily – which may result in more iterations to keep the platforms fresh. Also, consumer electronics companies are generally better set up for shorter cycles of hardware and iterate devices more rapidly today than they did previously so this is likely to influence product lifecycle strategies in the console space.”  One question that’s coming up, though, is: why now? The new consoles are barely two years old – aren’t purchasers going to be angry that their new machines are already facing the dustbin of enforced obsolescence? Couldn’t the manufacturers simply have launched these consoles with slightly beefier specs? Take the PlayStation 4 specifically. Both 4K technology and the PlayStation VR project must have been known quantities within Sony when the PS4 was being devised. So why not release with a more powerful GPU, or wait until that hardware was cheaper? There are multiple answers. Industry and consumer pressure was growing on Sony and Microsoft to replace the ageing PS3 and Xbox 360, developers were pushing the hardware to its max. Meanwhile, industry pundits were questioning the need for fixed console hardware in an industry where smartphones were getting more powerful, PCs were edging into the living room and new possibilities like Android-based set top boxes were arriving. Sony has also faced this difficult problem in the past, and it was costly. It delayed the launch of the PS3 due to problems with the very early Blu-ray technology that it was desperate to include in the machine from the outset. The result was a year’s head start for the Xbox 360 and some financially very difficult years for Sony. Could the company have met its deadline, and its price point, if 4K and VR support had been there from the beginning? On the subject of virtual reality, the PlayStation VR headset, which had its price and release date announced at GDC, is compatible with the current PS4 and is ostensibly capable of impressive animation framerates of 120hz - which is better than the 90hz offered by the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive, and will make for a smooth VR experience. However, developers have told the Guardian that, because of the processing restrictions of the current PS4, it’s more likely that developers will render VR experienced at 60hz or 90hz then use a technique known as “asynchronous reprojection” to upscale the animation to a simulated 120hz. “It’s a bit like up scaling DVDs from 720p to 1080p,” says VR developer Sam Watts. However, just like DVD upscaling, the result isn’t quite as good as running animation in native 120hz, but this would be hugely demanding on the current hardware. “Some developers will chase a native 120hz with clever optimisation and/or low-poly graphics, while others will shoot for the are more achievable 60hz by relying on Sony’s ‘asynchronous reprojection’ technology,” says Dan Page of VR developers Opposable Games. With an upgraded PS4, however, a more powerful processor would allow developers to natively support PlayStation VR’s 120hz capabilities giving it an advantage over its competitors.  “I do not expect the console companies to implement strategies that fragment their audience in any way - the rumours of a new, more powerful PS4 with unique content I think are wide of the mark,” says Harding-Rolls. However, he sees an optional upgrade to the current machine as a distinct possibility. “It makes sense for Sony to improve support for 4K video, which requires a hardware revision. PS4 is already capable of playing back 4K video but it does not have the required hardware interface. Additionally, if the PS4 can be more optimised to support PlayStation VR, I think that would make sense, perhaps by integrating some of the functionality of the external box that comes with the headset.” It’s all very early of course, and with Sony yet to confirm anything and Microsoft not yet able to expand much on its plans for Xbox One (beyond denying that the console will become as modular and upgradeable as a PC), it’s all supposition. It’s also worth noting that attempts to upgrade console hardware mid-cycle have not always been successful. The Mega Drive was a clear leader in the 16bit console war, in the early nineties despite what some saw as the technical superiority of Nintendo’s SNES rival. However, as the cycle progressed, and PlayStation loomed on the horizon, Sega dithered over a Mega Drive successor, instead opting for a series of add-ons, including the Mega CD and the 32X instead of committing to its totally new platform, the Saturn. This approach, designed to retain its Mega Drive users, ended up confusing its proposition entirely, and the games industry passed it by. Meanwhile, Nintendo is lurking in the background, ready to unleash news of its NX console, which may well be an entirely new combination of handheld and home machine. The console industry has always been an epic drama of dynastic highs and lows, but now it seems that the plot lines, like the attention span of the average media consumer, are becoming more compact, hungry and unpredictable. 