Three competing biopics about the infamous 1973 ‘Battle of the Sexes’ match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs are in production, as the struggle for equality on the court continues 
 The sight of Raymond Moore, then-director of the prestigious Indian Wells tennis tournament, arguing that female players should “go down every night on [their] knees and thank God that Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal were born” must have been enough to enrage most people who care about modern tennis. But a couple of hours west along California’s Interstate 10, the Hollywood producers of three competing biopics about the infamous 1973 “Battle of the Sexes” match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs will surely be spinning their rackets with glee. More than 40 years after King’s victory over her veteran male opponent helped shift attitudes towards women’s tennis – the US Open began paying women the same prize money as men that same year – it turns out that not much has really changed at all. That Moore thought it was acceptable, in 2016, to describe several female tennis players as “physically attractive” and claim the women’s tour “rides on the coat-tails” of the men’s game, suggests King’s long battle for equality may have just entered another round. The Hollywood grand pantheon is hardly filled with movies about tennis: middling 2004 rom-com Wimbledon, starring Kirsten Dunst and Paul Bettany as thinly disguised ciphers for Chris Evert and John Lloyd, is about the best studios have so far managed to serve up. But the Battle of the Sexes episode, which still stands as one of the most watched tennis matches of all time, certainly has the potential to deliver a few big screen aces. In 1973, Riggs, the 55-year-old former Wimbledon and US Open winner, challenged King, the reigning women’s Wimbledon champion and founder of the Women’s Tennis Association, to a high-profile televised match in Houston, Texas, insisting he would emerge victorious, despite the 26-year age gap between them, and take $100,000 in prize-money. King won in three sets, 6-4, 6-3, 6-3, after nullifying her opponent’s tricky drop shot and lob-based game by playing defensively from the back of the court. (Riggs had earlier defeated the women’s No 1, Margaret Court, using similar tactics.) Persistent rumours – always denied – suggest King’s opponent might have thrown the match to pay off mafia gambling debts. But others have pointed out that the veteran appeared devastated following his loss, and would have been set to battle against Evert on clay for a $1m prize had he emerged victorious. Hollywood A-listers Emma Stone and Steve Carell are due to play King and Riggs in the first of two competing big-screen biopics, a dramatic take directed by Little Miss Sunshine’s Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris titled (you guessed it) Battle of the Sexes. A competing comedic version, titled The Match Maker, has Will Ferrell as Riggs (King is yet to be cast), while HBO is reportedly putting its own TV movie, Proof, into production with Elizabeth Banks and Paul Giamatti in the lead roles. Back in 2004, Wimbledon’s producers recruited Evert herself and John McEnroe for small parts. If the new round of biopics are looking to repeat the trick, King’s tireless work to establish the women’s game in the 1970s surely makes her a smashing candidate for a cameo. 