Britain’s biggest gym operator, Pure Gym, has revealed plans to float on the London Stock Exchange, raising £190m to pay off debts and fund expansion. The no-frills fitness chain said a stock market listing would allow the company to raise its profile and increase its network of gyms, as well as open the door to more acquisitions. The private equity-owned company did not say how many shares it intended to sell, or their expected price, but the initial public offering is expected to take place in October. Humphrey Cobbold, chief executive, said: “Pure Gym is ready to become a listed company. As well as opening more gyms, we will continue to invest in technology and the innovation it supports.  “Technological capability has been and will remain fundamental to our success and going forward offers opportunities to further differentiate the options and services we provide our members.” The Leeds-based business was founded in 2008 and following a period of rapid expansion is now the UK’s largest gym operator, with 163 gyms and almost 790,000 members across the UK. Last year it bought rival chain LA Fitness and struck up a partnership with Olympian Sir Chris Hoy, who is a “special adviser and brand ambassador” to Pure Gym. Pure Gym says its business model is based on offering members affordable fees without tying them into fixed term contracts, with gyms accessible at any time of day and night. The chain does not have swimming pools, saunas or cafes, which have high fixed costs.  In the first half of 2016 the company opened 27 new gyms, 16 of which were conversions of previously acquired LA Fitness premises. Revenue over the six months was £76.6m, up 51% compared with the first half of 2015. Tony Ball, chairman of Pure Gym, said its business model had made gym membership accessible for hundreds of thousands of people. “Pure Gym’s growth from a startup company in 2008 to undisputed market leader today is a story of disruption.  “When the company was founded the traditional gym market was moribund. It did not cater for modern gym users who are tech-savvy, want to be able to exercise at any time of day or night and want gyms they actually use, all without being locked into an expensive 12-month contract.” 