Claims he paid for male escort services follow controversies including a march against The Satanic Verses and the Hinduja passport affair Claims he paid for male escort services follow controversies including a march against The Satanic Verses and the Hinduja passport affair 
Helen Pidd North of England editor 
 In his 29-year parliamentary career, Keith Vaz has rarely been far from controversy. On Sunday, it emerged he plans to stand aside as chair of the Commons home affairs committee after he was accused of paying for the services of male prostitutes in a Sunday newspaper sting operation. In 1989, two years after becoming the first Asian MP since 1929, he led a march of several thousand Muslims in Leicester calling for Salman Rushdie’s book The Satanic Verses to be banned. Rushdie subsequently claimed that Vaz, a Catholic of Goan origin, had previously assured him of his support – just one example of why Vaz has long been dismissed as an ideological weathervane, willing to say or do anything if he thinks the public will reward him for it.  It was a successful tactic, at least at the ballot box, if not for making friends in parliament. He has increased his vote in his Leicester East seat in seven consecutive elections, winning a majority of 18,352 in 2015. Quite an achievement for a former lawyer who arrived in Britain aged nine, having been born in 1956 in Aden, a former British colony in what is now Yemen, where his father was a correspondent for the Times of India.  Renowned for his love of publicity, the 59-year-old rarely seems to pass up an opportunity for a photo or a comment, a gift perhaps learnt by watching his dad at work. A constituent once wrote to the Leicester Mercury to note that his MP had not appeared in the previous day’s paper, asking: “I was wondering if this edition would have any value to a collector of rare objects.”  A strong news sense runs in the family: Vaz’s sister Valerie worked for the BBC as a journalist before joining him in parliament as MP for Walsall South. She keeps a lower profile than her brother. Controversies have often related to his using his office to wield undue influence, most notoriously during the Hinduja passport affair of 2001. He was eventually cleared of any improper relationship with two rich Indians who were trying to gain British citizenship through the backdoor but lost his job as Europe minister, never returning to the frontbenches.  But it was as chairman of the influential home affairs select committee that Vaz found his happy place. Though frequently mocked for inviting celebrities to give evidence – Russell Brand once turned up in a vest to call a visibly thrilled Vaz “mate” in a discussion of drugs policy – he is a master of using the position to get things done. Most recently, he took the highly unusual step of making a freedom of information request to the Home Office to find out where Syrian refugees had been placed on the vulnerable persons relocation scheme, after the government repeatedly refused to release the information. 