Here are some of the issues Guardian readers are talking about on Monday. Join the conversation in our latest live blog 
Guardian readers and 
Matthew Holmes 
 Monday morning came with clear signs the pace of referendum campaigning had stepped up again after decisions on both sides to ease up after the death of Jo Cox on Thursday.  We learned that Sayeeda Warsi was no longer supporting the leave campaign, and heard reaction to David Cameron’s solo appearance on Question Time on Sunday evening before MPs paying tribute to Cox during a special session at Westminster. Here, we look at your reactions to those and other key stories today, including memories of Cox as well as controversial allegations of campaigners trying to exploit her death.  Click on the links at the end of each section to get involved, or head over to our EU referendum live blog to follow the news and discussion as it happens. Guardian readers have also contributed to this article, looking at the divisions in their families the referendum has highlighted. Warsi, the former chair of the Conservative party, said she would no longer support the campaign to leave the European Union just days before the referendum, accusing it of “hate and xenophobia”. She cited Nigel Farage’s anti-immigration poster and “lies about Turkey’s accession to the EU” as a turning point for her and other moderate Eurosceptics. She said leave’s tactics would create a more divided and xenophobic UK. There was some discussion over whether she had indeed been as strong a campaigner for a leave vote as was being made out, but your conversation reflected her decision’s significance with just days remaining. But many readers echo Warsi’s concerns. I have for years advocated leaving the E.U. due to it's undemocratic ways and free market ideology but the leave campaign has descended into outright lies and xenophobia though so it is pushing me towards remain. In response to analysis above the line in our fast-moving live blog, some highlighted how the Times had seemingly rowed back on its Warsi scoop between editions – changing language to better reflect her new position. Hold on. It's taken until three days before the referendum for a member of parliament to work out where they stand on Britain being in the EU? How does this tally with the received wisdom of recent days that MPs are the very best of us? Not trusting this at all. Still voting to leave. Warsi jumping ship is very, very suspicious. But for many of you this was the wrong focus. Interesting that the response to Warsi's defection is 'she wasn't ever a member', rather than 'she's wrong to say we're xenophobic and racist'. Have they just given up on that? Or are they tacitly accepting it? Especially now it's clear she was a Brexit supporter. Means they literally don't have any response to her comments. She also objected to Gove's constant lies about Turkey's supposed imminent joining of the EU, and during the Mayoral election she complained bitterly about the Goldsmith campaign against Sadiq Khan. There is also evidence ATL that she shared a Brexit platform early on with Daniel Hannan who is claiming he didn't know she was on his side. I think as a prominent Muslim politician, she must be extremely concerned by direction of both leave campaigns, and must be particularly concerned that those Tory politicians leading vote.leave will undoubtedly be in a position to determine the kind of society that will will have if leave wins. This is something that I suspect must be increasingly concerning remain voters, and those who are still making their minds up. We often see discussions that focus on fact checking, and those around Farage’s poster were no exception. she said: How is that poster even defensible? … It is perpetuating lies about who those people are. I am from Slovenia and unlike Farage, I worked for several months with the refugees shown on the evil poster. As far as I could find out, the photo on the UKIP poster comes from Rigonce (in Slovenia) and was shot on 25 October 2015. Some people pointed out that there are only men on the poster, implying that a vast majority of the refugees are single men. Well, single men walk faster than women and children, hence they were always in front of the line. People with children also tend to prefer to be in less exposed places for safety reasons.-This is the PHOTO used by UKIP.-Here are some more photos shot in Rigonce at the same time as Farage's poster: THIS PHOTO shows how families with children walk at the back of the line. Note the front of the line in the distance, led by police on horses. THIS PHOTO shows quite many children also in the middle of the line. THIS PHOTO is a close-up of some walking refugees. Not quite as scary as Farage's poster, is it.-Evil dangerous divisive extremist demagoguery coming from Farage. After Hungary closed its borders to the refugees, Slovenia was the first country on the Balkan route which systematically registered all refugees crossing its borders. There were more than 400,000 refugees, of which 45% Syrians30% Afghans17% Iraqis 49% men51% women and children (under 18)- 