The former child star has been more famous for her run-ins with the police and the media than anything else in recent years, but a move to the UK and a London stage debut changed all that 
Tim Adams 
 Sitting in the corner of the bar of the Connaught hotel in Mayfair, wide-eyed, sipping iced water, Lindsay Lohan is telling me in her cracked voice about the latest addiction she is having to suffer cold turkey from. “It was such a diligent thing,” she says, “the schedule was very ritualistic, so not to have that every day has been a really strange feeling. It’s been hard for me to adjust.” Her compulsion, now removed from her life, has been to appear on stage eight times a week for three months in David Mamet’s play Speed-the-Plow at the Playhouse theatre, a run that had come to an end a week before we met. Contrary to expectations, she didn’t miss a show (or a cue) and is finding withdrawal tough. She is still talking to the director Lindsay Posner every day, planning her next fix: she is desperate to do another Mamet play with Posner – Oleanna – as early as possible in the new year. Lohan, 28, has been acting on screen since her parents (of whom it was once observed “if they were any more low-rent they’d be a spring-break destination”) put her forward for auditions when she was three. The London show is only the second time she has appeared on stage, however – the other was a school production of Cinderella at 13 when, having been cast as an ugly sister rather than the lead (and already a real-life million-dollar-a-movie Disney princess) she walked out after a couple of performances. One of several great things about her latest commitment, she says, is that for three months it removed a question that has dogged her recent life: how to fill the evenings? “In LA I didn’t know what to do apart from go out every night,” she says. “That’s when my friends were free. And I would go out and there would be all these cameras there and that’s when it became difficult.” That obsessively documented “difficulty” is shorthand for the literal multiple-car-crash-of-a-life that saw Lohan twice imprisoned for driving under the influence, indicted for fights in nightclubs and for lying to the police, in and out of rehab for drug and alcohol addictions and on almost permanent probation for the last seven years: the ubiquitous cautionary caricature of celeb excess gone bad. At one point in 2011 Lohan was ordered to do a series of 12-hour shifts of community work in the LA county morgue. If the intention of that curious punishment was to give her a sense of her own fragile mortality, the talent she was throwing away, it has taken until this year to finally sink in. She herself puts her current sobriety down to a couple of things. Firstly, the intervention and example of the archetypal celebrity fairy godmother, Oprah Winfrey. In the curious double bind of Oprah’s friendship, the counselling sessions she gave Lohan were broadcast to a global TV audience and an intrusive five-part reality show about Lohan’s struggles with life lived in public was aired in the spring. Lohan remains grateful for the last of many “second chances” Oprah offered her. The second strand of her strategy to change her life around was perhaps braver and more radical, however: she moved to London. Lohan has lived in the capital for nine months now, has a lease for another year on her flat in the West End, and is currently planning to make it her permanent home. She can’t emphasise enough the liberation the move has given her. “I can go for a run here on my own,” she says. “I do every morning, early, and I think how my friends in New York would still be up partying at that time. I needed to grow up and London is a better place for me to do that than anywhere else.” The defining moment of this shift, she says, came on a holiday she took to Greece in the summer. “It was,” she says, still thrilled at the idea, “the first time I have ever just been on a vacation by myself. I just wandered about on my own! I turned off my phone. It was so extraordinarily freeing for me. Like another life.” The world, which had for so long reflected back to her an ugly image of herself, was suddenly just “out there”. “I won’t live in LA again, hell no,” she says. “My friends tell me shit when they come over I don’t want to hear. I don’t even know who got married and who got pregnant. You turn on the news in LA and it is all gossip about people. All the stuff that is going on in the world right now and this gossip is the news?” She laughs. “I love the BBC. I haven’t heard myself mentioned on TV since I have been here. That has been really weird for me, and great.” Having moved to London, there was, she says, quickly only one thought in her head: to do a play. She was encouraged to take on the role of Karen in Mamet’s Hollywood satire not only by the playwright himself but also by his friend, Al Pacino. The actor came to see Lohan a couple of nights into her performance and offered her advice throughout the play’s run. “He said I know you are going to love this, it will be such a rush for you. He helped me get a routine; I like to meditate a bit before I go on to stage. He warned me the adrenaline you have after is tricky, it’s late and you want to do something. I have let myself go eat, and then I have gone home.” The other thing she has learned was that all-important lesson of having to turn up. Having infamously stood up the American justice system on several occasions, she was determined to prove herself able to keep an appointment. “One time I was sick with a bug, I had been vomiting all day, but no way was I going to miss a show. I was sitting there beforehand seeing spots in front of my eyes. I had a plan: if I felt sick on stage I was going to faint, play dead, pretend it was part of the script. Didn’t happen fortunately.” The self-imposed disciplines made her feel good about herself for the first time since she can remember, since the early successes of The Parent Trap and Freaky Friday, maybe. “Going on to a film set there have been times when I really hated it,” she says. “When I just wanted to stop and be home. I should have done that, because instead all the court stuff happened.” Lohan’s redemptive Hollywood journey from jail to stage would not be complete, of course, without a degree of 12-step wisdom. Oprah gave her a self-help book that has become her bible, The Untethered Soul, by Michael Singer. The book has helped her to shut down the destructive voice in her head, she says, the one that, against her first instincts, told her to get in the car drunk, or turn up late for the court appearance, or to have just one more. “There is a chapter called ‘The Rose and the Thorn’, you sit on a couch, and you imagine that voice in your head as a person next to you. You learn how to distance yourself from that person.” Part of her “intention-led” life has been to become involved in a charitable community project in London, the Red Route Cafe in Hackney, which helps young people find a sense of purpose through volunteering. “The kids there know me a bit now,” she says, “and they treat me the same as everyone else. That is so cool for me. In the past I got used to meeting people who would seem like genuine people but often they would have other intentions. There is less of that for me here now.” She hasn’t given up on movies, but the immediacy of the stage is something she will not give up lightly. Will we be seeing Lohan doing Shakespeare any time soon? “I would like to do a period piece at least,” she says. “I enjoyed having a British accent when I did Parent Trap so I guess I am halfway there. The way I see it,” she says, a threat and a promise, “the longer I live here the less of a choice you will all have not to hire me for plays… ” 