 If the pressure on Andy Murray at Wimbledon was not already enough, the government is hoping a repeat of last year's victory could also rekindle last summer's boom in exports of tennis rackets and strawberries. The UK's trade and investment department (UKTI) has flagged up that hot weather and Murray's win on the grass court last year – the first for a Briton in 77 years – were partly behind a 26% spike in exports of tennis equipment. But the government's hopes for overseas cricket sales are unlikely to be so high. Unveiling details of a summer exports push on Monday, UKTI said exports of cricket balls soared an annual 438% to £256,000 last summer, with major sporting rivals Australia the top buyers. It remains to be seen how our Ashes defeat over the winter will affect this year's ball sales. Based on last year's big summer sellers, UKTI is also hoping for export success this year for fruit, ice cream, sunglasses, umbrellas and swimwear. The top overseas buyer of UK tennis rackets last year was Belgium. Strawberries were most popular in the Netherlands while France was the UK's biggest export market for blackcurrants, watersports equipment and inflatable balls. Ireland was the top market for Britain's ice-creams, umbrellas, pears and apples. The department, charged with helping UK-based companies win business overseas and bringing investment to the UK, is running a British Business House at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and at the International Festival for Business in Liverpool. UKTI chief executive Dominic Jermey said the "Made in Britain brand" was sought after across the world. "During these summer months we are running targeted events to help even more UK firms capitalise on the excellent global reputation we have for our goods and services," Jermey said. While the government has made raising exports a key part of its industrial strategy, it has faced criticism from businesses that too little support is available compared with other major economies. Official data has shown little improvement in the UK's net trade position, with the latest figures showing the trade deficit widened in April because of weaker chemicals and manufacturing exports. Business surveys have painted a more buoyant picture of exports but there are fears a strong pound will hurt overseas demand for UK goods over coming months. 