 The way the whole women's tennis product is presented at Wimbledon is second class: in the newspapers, on TV, by the committee and, in particular, by the All England Club's attitude that paying them less than men is acceptable. This last issue affects all the others, because only if women are given an equal platform can they fulfil their potential both here and on the world stage. They can hold their own against the men but only by starting from the basis of equal pay.  The United States is the perfect example of this. Thirty years ago the government introduced legislation requiring colleges and universities that receive government funds to provide equal funding for women in all campus activities including athletics. Then, in 1973, an effort by Billie Jean King resulted in equal prize money for women at the US Open; the seeds of the female sporting boom were sown.  The results of this were seen in the 1999 women's World Cup football final between the US and China in Los Angeles which was watched by more than 100,000 spectators and millions of TV viewers.  Equality is also why US women's tennis teams have dominated recent Olympics and why American women, led by Venus and Serena Williams and Jennifer Capriati, capture the tennis headlines and TV ratings in the States as the men do in England.  The US is a huge media market, driven by ratings and sponsorship. If we were still debating equal pay there, such is the success of women's tennis that the argument would be that they should be given more. Indeed, if women's tennis were a stock you would certainly invest in it rather than men's, given the far greater potential for growth. In the US in 1973 the depth in women's tennis was nowhere near what it is today but once you treat people with the respect of equality they will fulfil their end of the obligation.  In this day and age it must be a turn-off for girls in Britain to think that they're going into a sport in which they're very much in second place. Women have increased opportunities all over the world and more and more are treated as equals. So why would you want to go into a sport which restates its inequality in a very public way every year through its prize money and attitude? When equality is embraced, more and more young and talented British girls will choose tennis as their sport and will have the same aggressive approach as the Williams sisters and Capriati in going for the biggest prizes in tennis.  At Wimbledon there are half as many women's matches scheduled on the show courts as men's most days, and a small percentage of television hours covers the women's game. As the unequal prize money indicates, it is a second-class citizen.  Seeking equality is especially difficult when the overwhelming majority of the All England Club decision-makers are men from privileged backgrounds unused to having women on an equal footing. Changes in bricks and mortar are easy but changes in culture, mindset and tradition are much more difficult.  Change could come soon with the emergence of a couple of men on the committees who have wives or daughters seeking fair and equal treatment in the workplace. But if they want to protect their position there are a hundred ways of doing it. They can say they went through the queue and more people wanted to see men's tennis - hardly surprising given how Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski have done - or the men play best of five sets rather than best of three. But if you look at the full picture, equality is the only way to go.  It's nothing to do with time on the court or how fast people serve or run. It's about being treated in all aspects on the same level as men. Male or female, you are an athlete going out to win Wimbledon. Should Capriati win here it would mean exactly the same as if Henman won. The jobs are equal.  I believe that the All England Club, despite its being a private club and able to do what it wants, will eventually make the right decision. Its officials have consciousness, brains, a heart and a soul but they have taken a step back by making insensitive statements about needing enough money to pay for petunias as an excuse for inequality, and this year knocking the US and Australian Opens for recognising equality.  The club has insisted that somehow women have to miraculously lead the way to equality, but this can only be achieved by positive actions from the club. Player boycotts only produce an atmosphere the game does not want to encourage.  I have no axe to grind. Equality would not put any more money in my pocket. But in the US the women's game has been expanding rapidly because of those seeds planted many years ago. Over here you feel it shrinking. Equality is an idea that has to be embraced and the more it is delayed the more the women's game will suffer. All England Club, it is your serve. 