 I've never loved the new, resurrected Mini. It tries too hard to be cool actually to be cool. And with all that brand nonsense going on, too, it's as much a mobile marketing concept as a car. Plus it's been ruined by estate agents, a car for Foxtons twats. Red Bull, too. And don't get me started on the myriad derivatives – the stupid little Coupe, the Countryman and the Paceman etc. Those last two are so vast, incidentally, they're an insult to lexicology. This, the third generation, is available only in hatchback form for now. Like last time, we're talking evolution not revolution looks-wise. At first glance it looks much the same, but it's a little rounder, and the rear lights are bigger. Predictably, it's all bigger in fact, has grown by a few centimetres in all directions, making even more a mockery of its Mini moniker. But on the plus side, there's more room in the back, and in the boot. It is a wholly new car, though, and comes with some interesting, impressively frugal and clean new three-cylinder engines. But I've got the hot one: the four-cylinder, two-litre, 189bhp Cooper S. In orange and black, with a number plate that ends WKD. Oh Lord, who's the twat now? To drive, it's not outrageous, but it still has enough go-kartiness to put a smile on your face on a twisty road. It can also be well-mannered, though – not sensible, but more mature than the one it replaces. Inside, it's gimmick central, with different colour glows round the dash to remind you that you're driving in sport mode (red) or eco (guess). And a red starter switch. Maybe switches are the new start buttons, which were the new ignition keys (remember them?). I never saw the problem with a key, to be honest. At least you knew where it was when you stopped. My two-and-a-bit-year-old loves (pressing) the red switch. In fact, he loves everything about this car. "We got a orange mini car," he shouts at anyone who'll listen. Shush, it's our secret, remember? I'll get you something nice later… But then another mum at his nursery notices it (it's hard not to, even when it's parked a little bit away), and says it's cool, and she looks like she knows. Plus there was one, albeit the previous model, in The Trip To Italy, the funniest TV show of the year so far, even if it was mainly a means of getting Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon to do their Michael Caine impressions. So maybe not just for estate agents, after all. Suddenly I'm feeling more cheerful. It is certainly that – cheerful. And likable, to drive, or just to be in, pressing buttons. Hell, I don't know, maybe it is cool. Price £18,650 Top speed 146mph Acceleration 0-62 mph in 6.8 seconds Combined fuel consumption 49.6mpg CO2 emissions 133g/km Eco rating 6/10 Cool rating Who knows? 