 Lancashire have insisted their plans to redevelop Old Trafford remain on track despite a distinctly unfestive double blow. The club have had their grant from the North West Development Agency reduced from £7.2m to £5.2m as a result of government cuts but say neither that nor the threat of a judicial review from a rival development will prevent them continuing work in the new year. Derwent Holdings, which owns the nearby White City retail park and has failed in two bids to derail the scheme – which involves the construction of a new Tesco superstore between the cricket ground and the other Old Trafford – has now called for a judicial review. The worry for Lancashire is that any review could jeopardise the NWDA funding, which is contingent on the development being clear of any judicial threats by April. "Derwent's actions are a blatant attempt to get us to stop work," said Lancashire's chief executive, Jim Cumbes. "We are pleased to confirm that we are on site and well underway implementing a perfectly lawful planning consent for the substantial redevelopment of Old Trafford. There is too much at stake for the club, Trafford and the wider north-west and we will not be bullied into stopping." Cumbes conceded that the loss of £2m from the NWDA is a blow but one that the redevelopment plans can withstand. "In an ideal world the £7.2m would have been great because we would have been able to complete the whole refurbishment of the ground," he added. "But we still have the capacity we want, and everything the ECB needs us to have to be an international venue. It is tight, but we can just about do it. We will cope." Lancashire have started work on the rotation of the square, and construction of a new facility for players and media directly opposite the pavilion – which will be behind the bowler's arm – is due to begin early next year. The main effect of the cut in funding will be to restrict the work Lancashire can do on the stands at the Statham End near the Old Trafford tram station. 