 The head of the UK civil service, cabinet secretary Jeremy Heywood, has admitted that the service’s use of technology has lagged behind the business world for too long, and stated its commitment to the work of the Government Digital Service. Heywood pushed the idea of “government as a platform” – a central service that links all aspects of customer-facing government instead of running a series of disjointed silos as it has done in the past. “Things are changing in the Civil Service. Government is adopting new ideas and new ways of working to make everything we do better for users, and more efficient,” said Heywood in a blog post. “Many in the world of business understood this and adapted to it years ago. The Civil Service lagged behind. Now we are changing that.” The Government Digital Service (GDS), a unit of the Cabinet Office tasked with rebuilding the government’s services online, has been methodically overhauling and simplifying hundreds of government websites which handle 700 services from 24 government departments and 331 agencies for the whole UK. GDS has established a set of standards and practices for the design and use of various government sites, with gov.uk the highest profile model for new services. It aims to be more focused on the needs of users, making the processes of applying for a tax disc or passport, for example, more efficient and easy to use. “At the heart of all this change are the users: people who need to use government services, from the trivial to the life-changing. All these services, all the platforms, everything we build from now on should be focused on meeting user needs,” Heywood wrote. Technology companies including Amazon have been using this customer-centric ideal for years, making sure that the customer gets what they want with the minimum of fuss, removing roadblocks that infuriate. Through gov.uk the GDS, Heywood is pushing “government as a platform” as a way to unify services but also to cut costs and increase efficiency, crucial in the post economic downturn tight budgetary environment. “If one department needs a service for publishing information to the web, so will other departments – so why should they all pay money to different people to achieve the same end? Why not just build a publishing platform they can all use and share?” wrote Heywood. The government is also building two new platforms, one for monitoring the performance of government’s digital services and the other a way to verify their identity, which is crucial for use of government services like voting registration, tax and other identity dependent facilities. Heywood also talked about the possibility of opening up government data to third-parties – something companies like Google and startups looking to turn data into innovative new services have requested for years. The plan is to put every service online that can be online. In its first three years, GDS prioritised six popular government services including voter registration, patent renewal and the booking of prison visits, and has 19 more in development not yet ready to fully replace older systems. • Government Digital Service: the best startup in Europe we can’t invest in 