Letters 
 John Airs is in eminent company in asserting, wrongly, that Lord Justice Sales in the court of appeal “now decides that Labour shouldn’t face the vote of some 130,000 new members” (Letters, 15 August). Jeremy Corbyn said much the same in his Observer interview on the previous day: “People joined the Labour party … and were specifically told that they were able to vote in the leadership election and that was decided by the high court that they could. The appeal court has said they can’t.” According to the BBC, Mr Corbyn’s campaign spokesperson went even further: “A spokesman for leader Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign said Friday’s verdict was legally and democratically ‘wrong’.” In fact, Lord Justice Sales and the other judges of the court of appeal said only that the party’s NEC had the power under the party’s rules to decide the criteria for voting in the leadership election, and that its decision on the cut-off date for eligibility to vote was not illegal. The court made no comment either way on the wisdom, or lack of it, of the NEC’s decision, only that the NEC was legally entitled to make it. This judicial upholding of the rights and powers of the party’s highest elected body (between party conferences) ought to be welcome to all Labour party members, and especially to supporters of Mr Corbyn who will apparently have a majority on the NEC after next month’s conference. The party’s general secretary, Iain McNicol, and the relevant NEC committee were clearly right to defend those NEC rights by appealing against the high court’s contrary judgment. Quite apart from Mr Corbyn and others’ serious misinterpretation of the appeal court’s decision, which was manifestly in favour of the Labour party, personal attacks on a senior judge whose judgment, along with that of his brother judges, may have appeared to be unwelcome ought to be completely out of order. The decision to disfranchise party members who joined after a given date was that of the NEC, not that of any UK court.Brian BarderLondon • Contrary to Tom Watson’s claims (Report, 15 August), the Alliance for Workers’ Liberty is not “infiltrating” the Labour party: our supporters are hardworking activists in constituencies across the country who hope to persuade others through discussion and debate. The publicly available documents from our 2015 AGM “expose” nothing except our commitment to working in the labour movement to promote revolutionary socialist ideas. The real issue here is political. Watson and others on the right of the PLP oppose many of the radical policies now gaining ground in the party: taxing the rich to fund public services; free education; reversing welfare cuts; scrapping Trident; abolishing all anti-union laws; and public ownership. His pretended outrage at his “discovery” that the AWL wants Labour councils to “refuse to implement cuts” shows that his is not an honest democrat’s concern with secretive infiltration (in which we are manifestly not engaged), but a political hostility to the advance of radical ideas.Daniel RandallLondon • I see that Tom Watson is continuing his campaign to keep Labour a Trot-free zone – but to guarantee success he should ally himself with disillusioned ex-Trotskyists in the party. I’m sure that there are far more than there are current Trotskyists, and they know well what they are dealing with.Jim CookTilehurst, Berkshire • John Hoggart believes Liverpool’s Militant-led socialist council left a disastrous legacy and Thatcher had us on a string (Letters, 15 August). Is that why the Iron Lady conceded millions to the city – the only one to gain anything from that government? Is that why Liverpool became the object of a hysterical hate campaign, similar to the current anti-Corbyn campaign, against a single city by the forces of the establishment, with Murdoch’s Sun, Maxwell and Kinnock spearheading the poisonous attack? We built 5,000 new houses and six sports centres, cancelled thousands of redundancies, opened six new nursery schools and created thousands of real jobs, from which the youth benefited. That’s why demonstrations of up to 50,000 marched through the city, and we received the largest council votes ever recorded. Some disastrous legacy!Tony MulhearnLiverpool • My old acquaintance Bob Labi gives the game away in his defence of Militant and the Labour Party Young Socialists (Letters, 15 August). He says that “Militant had become [the LPYS] leadership in 1970”. Indeed it had: I served on the LPYS national committee at the time and saw it happen. What Militant’s “leadership” meant was complete control. National committee meetings became rubber stamps for whatever Militant had decided. The LPYS became the youth section not of the Labour party but of the Revolutionary Socialist League, the actual, but unacknowledged, name of the Militant organisation. The LPYS annual conferences Labi refers to, paid for by Labour, passed ludicrous motions while being organised by bored-stiff party staff. Militant’s activities caused substantial damage to Labour over a long period. Finally, sanity prevailed and action was taken to exclude Militant from the party. If it and similar organisations are allowed back, that way madness lies.Paul TinnionNewcastle upon Tyne • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@ 