Dier the dependable, Costa can be a real threat for Spain, Gabriel Jesus gives Neymar some backing and Snodgrass proves worth for Scotland 
 Eric Dier was one of the few England players to escape the post-Iceland wreckage without scathing criticism, yet he was also quick to put his hands up and admit it will be a long time before the scars are healed. He sounded genuinely apologetic about the disaster in France after the far from perfect win in Slovakia on Sunday, which must be welcomed. “There is a long way to go until the scars have been healed but it is a start,” he said. “All we can do is win against whoever we have in front of us but I think there is a long way to go before we repay everyone for what happened in the Euros.” Yet Dier also deserves praise for his performances. There is a growing argument that the Tottenham Hotspur midfielder has been England’s best player in 2016, doing much of the thankless dirty work that passes by unnoticed. And in Trnava on Sunday evening he was as dependable as usual. Nobody touched or passed the ball more and with plenty of questions over the composition of Sam Allardyce’s midfield in the future, Dier must be the only certain starter. AS There’s nothing like the harsh realities of a qualification campaign to take the edge off your buzz. With the significant caveat that Cristiano Ronaldo, working his way back from the knee injury that took him out of the Euro 2016 final in Paris, was absent for their trip to Switzerland, it was still a limp Portugal that lost 2-0 in Basel. This was the coach Fernando Santos’s first competitive defeat since taking charge in 2014 and Éder, the hero of the summer, was hooked at half-time having made minimal impact. Down to earth with a bump, to say the least. Portugal do have a history of struggling rather in the preliminaries, requiring play-offs to reach the past two World Cups and Euro 2012, and from the way they started the qualifiers for the 2018 World Cup, they might be in for another struggle this time. NM • World Cup roundup: European champions beaten in Switzerland First, a caveat: it was only Liechtenstein. But Spain still looked slick in their first competitive game under Julen Lopetegui and perhaps the most striking aspect of all was Diego Costa’s return having missed out on the Euro 2016 squad. The perception of the Chelsea striker in Spain, after switching allegiances from Brazil, his country of birth, in 2013, has never been wholly positive and there remains some animosity between him and sections of the Spanish press. To be given the nod instead of Álvaro Morata to start against Liechtenstein would have been a boost, and by contributing two goals in the 8-0 rout (though Morata scored a pair when replacing Costa from the bench) will have been a big step to establishing himself as the regular first choice plus a warning to the sceptics that he is capable of elevating La Roja back to the very top. Loetegui was full of praise, too, saying: “Diego is a great player and he showed as much today”. AS Niall Quinn made a valid point on TV before Wales’s thrashing of Moldova. He was comparing Chris Coleman’s team qualifying for their first tournament this summer to when the Republic of Ireland made it to Euro 88. The key, Quinn said, was building upon that success by keeping the same team together and making tournaments the norm rather than exception. Ireland, of course, made it to Italia 90 and the subsequent World Cup in 1994. Wales have started well, albeit against the weakest team in the group, and all the evidence suggests they are justifiably the favourites in a difficult group. Yet crucially for Wales, the team remains the same, injuries aside, and the key players are at an age where they can build upon their unprecedented success in France. AS When Manchester City fans of a certain vintage and disposition watch Gabriel Jesus, they might only see the burgeoning shoots of crushing disappointment appear before their eyes. For there is great excitement back home about the latest kid to have the anvil marked “saviour of Brazilian football” hung around his neck, and it’s not hard to see why. The 19-year-old looks pretty special, emphasising the point during Brazil’s game against Ecuador, winning a penalty then scoring two, the second an example of how to combine precision and power, a postage-stamp effort curled in from the edge of the area. From a Brazilian perspective, they might at least hope that he eventually takes some of the heat off Neymar, who was called upon to save his team in their 2-1 win over Colombia on Tuesday night, lashing in the winner with the air of a man thinking, “Ah, OK then, I’ll sort this again.” The great Brazil teams never had only one superstar, and they must now hope that Gabriel can join Neymar at that level. NM • Are South American qualifiers the world’s best matches? Throughout this international break, culminating in salvaging a point from a poor performance in Serbia, the Republic of Ireland were being managed by a man without a contract. Martin O’Neill and Roy Keane had agreed new deals with the FAI in June, leading to an excited announcement that they would remain in charge. Yet the pair have still not signed and the sense of uncertainty lingered throughout the past week, even if they were playing down its importance. The players were more interested in keeping up to date with Peaky Blinders, Keane reckoned, but with reports of Hull City being interested in O’Neill, they really should be. The team have improved greatly under O’Neill’s guidance and there looked to be a bright future ahead, despite having a tough group here, featuring Wales and Austria. If he left, a replacement of his standard will not be easy to come by and the FAI would not even be compensated. The issue begs one question: why is the chief executive, John Delaney, not putting a piece of paper in front of them and making sure they sign? It would make sense – on every level. AS While a second successive Copa America victory represents a handy summer’s work for Chile, their qualification campaign for the World Cup continues to stumble. After two wins and a draw from their first three games, they have won just one of their last five, the latest round seeing them lose to Paraguay and draw 0-0 at home to Bolivia, leaving them seventh in the ten-team qualifying group. It is of course too early to panic, just two points off fourth and an automatic place in Russia with ten games remaining, but there is still enough cause for concern, particularly as their remaining fixtures include trips to Argentina, Brazil and Bolivia. The unforgiving altitude of La Paz hasn’t hampered Chile enormously in the past, as they’ve won their last three trips there 2-0, but playing at nearly 12,000ft is no stroll in the park. “When one reaches glory is it hard to keep up,” said Arturo Vidal - who currently has ‘Campeón’ shaved into his hair, both an indisputable statement and a honking piece of hubris - said after the game. They need to recover from their post-Copa hangover fairly quickly, or else qualification could get ticklish, at best. NM It took Thomas Müller only 15 minutes and one shot to get back among the goals and somewhat inevitably a second followed in Germany’s 3-0 win over Norway. It made his misfiring at the Euros even more perplexing and led to Joachim Löw, tongue firmly in cheek, saying: “I would have preferred it if he would have scored some goals at the European Championship”. Yet the world champions are still short on goalscorers and, as Mats Hummels suggested before the game, there are probably more players in the current squad who want to assist rather than put the ball in the net. “We have a lot of players who like to set up goals,” Hummels said. “And I think we could use more players who want to score goals, which is a bit unusual. Because you’d normally have a few who are eager to score.” Mario Götze was tried as a false nine again and he remained ineffective. It is the only missing piece in a squad that otherwise would be undisputedly the strongest in the world. AS • Beckenbauer has heart surgery days after corruption allegations Who knew Poland and Kazakhstan could have such a spicy rivalry? The two teams drew 2-2 on Sunday, a fine second-half comeback and a brace from Sergei Khizhnichenko earning the draw for the Kazakhs, but the football seemed incidental at some points. There were ten bookings during the match (four for the Poles, six for Kazakhstan), including one particularly impressive burst of four in five heated minutes, and there might have been more stringent punishment for Robert Lewandowski had the referee been a little less forgiving. The Bayern Munich striker left the defender Yeldos Akhmetov with a bloody nose after an elbow to the face that, to give Lewandowski the benefit of the doubt, might possibly have been accidental. The headlock later on in the game, on Bauyrzhan Islamkhan, was a little more difficult to explain away. Islamkhan was also on the ugly end of a clothesline to the throat from Bartosz Kapustka, after which Kamil Glik received a yellow card for encouraging the Kazahkstan skipper to get up by nudging him with his boot, while talking to the referee: a brassy move and no mistake. In Poland’s defence the Kazahks did seem to spend much of the game antagonising and niggling at their opponents, perhaps irked by Artur Boruc’s attempt at pre-match banter on his Instagram feed, posting a picture of, yes, of course it was, Borat. “This was a bucket of cold water,” said the Poland coach, Adam Nawałka, afterwards, about throwing away two points, but perhaps one before the game in order to cool his boys off might have been in order. NM The fragility of Scotland’s central defence may only have been highlighted once again against Malta but there was at least cause for renewed attacking hope. It is routine for a player’s status to be enhanced when injured but the absence of Robert Snodgrass throughout Scotland’s failed Euro 2016 qualifying campaign was significant. A generous Scottish backline could not be bailed out by the guile and scoring touch of Snodgrass. On a personal level, no one could grudge Snodgrass his hat-trick in Malta after the kneecap injury that earlier disrupted his career and international journey. Sunday evening marked only the 28-year-old’s 18th cap. Snodgrass remains one of the most popular players in the Scotland set-up and an individual who energises team-mates, on and off the field. A fit and firing Snodgrass is absolutely key to Gordon Strachan’s aspirations of ending Scotland’s time in the international wilderness. The Hull City man can operate in a variety of attacking positions within Strachan’s preferred 4-2-3-1 system. Snodgrass retains pace and power not common for Scottish players. He can also remove the burden from Strachan’s strikers, who haven’t been even close to prolific. The standard of opponent for Scotland will soon improve. Given there appears no obvious cure for a shaky defence, an increase in potency will be vital. Snodgrass seems willing to take on that responsibility. EM 