 Sounds a horrible track to bat on at New Road. Bad light probably ends the second day at New Rd with @WorcsCCC 153/1 trailing @NorthantsCCC by 398 #bbccricket 
 Which is a very big lead against this Nottinghamshire batting lineup. OUT! Leaning stumped attempting to hit Patel down the ground. Yorks 194-4; lead of 382. 
 Seconded. Huge, season-defining ton by Dan Lawrence putting @EssexCricket - who were in a mess - in charge in the big one vs Leics. Serious player 
 Err, Steven Davies. He’d batted beautifully, patiently, chancelessly - all of those words - for 59, and now he’s just slapped Aaron Lilley to midwicket. Lancashire seemed as surprised as Davies or, indeed, me. Lead is 61 and Scurran is joined by CurranT. 348-6. Updated
 Kent, just quietly, are in a brilliant position in Bristol. Stevens has a ton and Billings - who I would strongly consider for India, given his excellence against spin - looks set for one too. The lead is 124 and the partnership massive. 
 A lovely cover drive for three off Procter takes Davies to 50, the third stylish Surrey southpaw to do so. Big one out there for him if he really wants it. 
 Sussex are going to end up with a tiny lead.  WICKET! Another one for VDG as Archer edges to Selman at third slip. 261/9 #GLAvSUS pic.twitter.com/af4ZLAkobJ 
 Very good. He’s batting with a slightly more aesthetically pleasing Ian. Hundred for @WarwickshireCCC's Ian Westwood today. Perfect chance to buy one of our Viv-Ian Westwood bags. Vintage. pic.twitter.com/HyZofQfjh4 
 Kent very well placed indeed.  Darren Stevens reaches his 70th first-class 50 off 79 balls in 107* stand with Billings 57*. Kent 248-4 v Glos 221. pic.twitter.com/BQKl3RSFuR 
 Wow. I did not see that coming! Sanga had made his way to an overworldly 67, and having drilled a four over cover, Surrey are just two behind. But very next ball, he’s thrashed a late cut, middled it, and it’s gone straight to Hameed at gully, who took a really smart catch. Foakes in at 6, and Lancashire are chirping again. 
 Sussex making a mess of things. Scores are level and they bat pretty deep, mind. WICKET! Brown drives outside off but can only Nick through to Wallace. He's gone for 3. 252/7 #GLAvSUS pic.twitter.com/UFf5w24e9U 
 This is an Ageas Bowl based tweet, but a few county grounds could be affected too... Coming from the south... pic.twitter.com/I4BMCLOa4c 
 Ok, so we had another over (bowled by Hameed!) before tea, because it wasn’t quite 3.40. And that’s the break. The two sexy left-handers have put on 66 in 14 overs and Surrey are just 13 behind. It’s all been so easy. New ball available straight after tea. 274 for three.  Updated
 Wow. No danger of that in South London today. We'll have to wait and see whether Wagg can get a fourth in the over. The umpires have called the players off for bad light. 243/6 #GLAvSUS 
 Good game, good game. Another wicket for the debutant, Wainwright! Abell (79) is trapped at lbw & @SomersetCCC are 154-3 after 43, trailing Hants by 184 runs 
 Slightly confusing tweet, this. WICKET.. 3 wickets in quick succession for @GlamCricket. David Wiese goes for a duck, only 2 balls bowled between the 3 wickets. #GOSBTS 
 Three overs til tea here. Davies appears to have engaged Sangakkara in an aesthete-off. Too close to call at the moment. 
 Oh my! It’s all happening in Cardiff! WICKET! Wagg gets another! Wiese bowled first ball – and that's three in the over. 243/6 #GLAvSUS pic.twitter.com/KEsMfGSmM4 
 Luke Wright gone for 0 in Cardiff and suddenly life isn’t quite so simple for Sussex. You can watch it here.  
 Sanga has one of the easiest 50s (47b) you’ll ever see, and Surrey have 2 batting points. They are 37 behind. Updated