 I wish it wasn’t so easy to buy things. I can buy a two-pack of Redbarn Ham Bones and they will arrive at my home by Friday. That’s right, for only $6.29, I can have what the company describes as “lightly smoked pork femur” on my doorstep.  It really is the future, isn’t it? It’s so very much the future that Amazon has finally pulled the trigger on the ultimate capitalist dream: infomercials where the products are all instantly purchasable through the magic of the internet. Style Code Live is the name of Amazon’s noble experiment in forcibly extracting every last dollar from your person as quickly as possible. I’m sure they considered just having large men in black ski masks mug you in the street – smashing your face in with a baseball bat until you cough up your wallet and social security number – but the method they chose is far less entertaining to watch. Style Code Live is hosted by Australian Lyndsey Rodrigues (who is a former host of MTV’s Total Request Live, a clear inspiration for this insipid chucklefest of a program), Rachel Smith of ABC News, and Ariana Grande’s half-brother Frankie. Rodrigues was clearly hired for her history with live broadcasts targeted toward children and the easily duped, Smith adds gravitas, and Frankie Grande provides his last name. Below the live stream is what the hosts referred to as the 'Carousel below', which sounds like a dour Joan Didion novel Frankie – an elfin bobblehead doll prone to smiling when made uncomfortable – is the obvious breakout star, because he’s the most annoying. His run on Big Brother must have prepared him for a lifetime of demanding attention from audiences, because he’s prone to blurting out bad jokes or pronouncing the name “Vince Camuto” as though he’s a drunk waiter at a French restaurant in Pittsburgh. The show is filmed on what resembles the set of an Old Navy commercial, with the blocking being almost as unnatural. There can only be two hosts on the main set at a time. The third host is then banished to the phantom zone, AKA a side room where they are forced (at gunpoint, I assume) to respond to the banal chatter of viewers watching along at home. One of the more cogent viewer comments came from someone named AMAZON CUSTOMER: “Value is always a plus,” in reference to a reversible T-shirt called the “Morf Shirt” that the host claimed could be worn 24 different ways. Helpfully, they reminded their fans that they should still wash it.  The remainder of the runtime, which exceeded 30 minutes, was taken up with yet more products: a wearable nail polish holder, Orange Is the New Black star Laura Prepon’s cookbook, a couple pairs of shoes. Below the live stream is what the hosts referred to as the “Carousel below”, which sounds like a particularly dour Joan Didion novel about the loss of innocence in a small California town. “Just check the style carousel below to purchase,” the hosts say every three minutes. The carousel is so user friendly, even Frankie Grande can figure it out. Each show segment is a tab, and all the tabs are arranged in the order they appear on the show. Click on the picture of the item you want and a new window opens that takes you to the Amazon.com page for the product. Carousel was also the name of the fiery suicide ritual from the 1976 sci-fi film Logan’s Run. In the movie, the population of a distant future dystopia is controlled by duping citizens into killing themselves the day they turn 30, thereby keeping the world young and sexy. The film, and the novel it’s based on, speak to our collective fascination with vitality and youth. The minute we hit a certain age, we’re used up, finished, and on the slow descent into irrelevance and death. As I endured Style Code Live, I silently wished that I could volunteer to be set ablaze in front of my peers and loved ones in lieu of witnessing another second of this program. Every further second I spend on this planet is another step I take away from the target demographic of shows such as this. Granted, Style Code Live is clearly made for people with a keen interest in women’s fashion, but that’s not what alienates me from it. No, it’s that it is so hyperactive about the whole thing. I love watching shopping networks such as QVC and HSN, even when the products being sold are not for me – dresses, handbags, makeup, Nascar merchandise, etc. Home shopping shows are soothing, melodic affairs with hosts that hypnotize you into purchasing crop tops or teapots with Mr Worf from Star Trek painted on them. It takes half an hour just to sell one item and in that time, the host never once raises their voice beyond a calming purr. Not so on Style Code Live, which caters to an internet audience that needs to be bombarded at all times with stimulus and buzzwords. At one point a special guest, blogger Danielle Bernstein, blurts out how one could pair a dress with a black leather jacket and boots as though she at that moment had figured out a way to reverse the effects of global warming by harnessing the power of rare crystals. And how can I forget the debut of the “Siren Ring,” a variation on the rape whistle that can be “accessorized with the modern woman’s wardrobe”. Just a turn of the ring and an alarm goes off alerting passers-by that you are in danger. A great idea, but a bit of a bummer for the first episode of a live infomercial series. Who is this show for, then, if not for me? It can’t be for people who need fashion recommendations. After all, the entirety of modern life is one big fashion recommendation. Reality shows, awards shows, Twitter, Instagram, blogs, Pinterest, Snapchat, tabloid magazines, TMZ – all of these are opportunities for the average mouthbreather to sort out what clothes they can’t afford. Frankie Grande reminds the viewers that they can’t buy the hair they see on screen, just the clothes It’s certainly not a show for fashionistas, because those people don’t need recommendations. They have fully developed ideas about style. It’s definitely not for old people, because, as I said earlier, there’s too much yelling and too many harsh edits for our mushy, decaying brains to process. If Style Code Live is just a method of generating more sales on Amazon, then it would have been much cheaper and easier to edit together a montage of pictures of products and mix in a bare bum or two just to keep people from clicking away. The show would be called “Spot the Bum” and would be bigger than Game of Thrones in the span of a couple months. Really, a more drastic format change than even that is in order. At one point, an audience member asks about someone’s hair. I’d tell you specifically who it was, but from what I can tell, Amazon doesn’t let you re-watch the show after it’s over so I can’t check. Frankie Grande reminds the viewers that they can’t buy the hair they see on screen, just the clothes. It’s a shame, because I think they might be onto something there. A program where you can purchase locks of hair from real people would be loads more popular than Style Code Live. Pop down to the human carousel to purchase a set of blue eyes, a blonde ponytail, and a gently worn kidney. Amazon probably wouldn’t go for it, but there’s always the Silk Road or 4chan. With any luck, the producers would be able to hire Charlie Sheen to host, or if he’s not available, Frankie Grande. I have a feeling Frankie’s going to be looking for work again soon. 