Three of the world’s largest pension funds have joined the campaign for change at the top of Sports Direct by voting against the re-election of the chairman, Keith Hellawell, and founder, Mike Ashley. Proxy voting disclosures for CalPERs and CALSTRS – the largest public pension funds in the US – and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan (OTTP) reveal all three plan to support a trade union-backed resolution calling for an independent review of labour practices at the retail group, in the wake of a critical parliamentary report and an investigation by the Guardian.  Public pressure on Sports Direct is increasing ahead of its annual shareholder meeting on 7 September with campaigners from War on Want planning demonstrations outside 15 stores around the country on Saturday.  The OTPP said it was voting against the reappointment of Ashley as executive deputy chairman and Hellawell given the “significant failings in the company’s human capital management practices” revealed by the business innovation and skills committee report and a separate investigation by HMRC into the underpayment of workers on minimum wage. “After reviewing the report, we have concerns over the role played by Mr Ashley in this situation and have lost confidence in his ability to represent the interests of all shareholders,” it said. The pension fund had lost confidence in Hellawell’s ability to “ensure the board’s oversight role is discharged effectively”. All three pension funds are voting against the reappointment of the retail group’s auditor, Grant Thornton, and a number of other directors. Both CalSTERS and CalPERs are voting against the reappointment of the chief executive, Dave Forsey, and the acting chief financial officer, Matthew Pearson, while OTPP and CALSTRS will vote against the reappointment of Simon Bentley, the non-executive director who heads Sports Direct’s audit committee. The North American funds own less than 1% of Sports Directs’ stock between them, according to Reuters, but their action will add to pressure for an overhaul of the board and employment practices from a string of British shareholder groups.  Legal & General Investment Management said last week it would be voting against the re-election of all Sports Direct’s non-executive directors, including Hellawell, against whom it has voted for the past two years. Aberdeen Asset Management said it would vote against the re-appointment of Hellawell, as well as Forsey and Matt Pearson. Both are backing the trade union resolution. The Investor Forum, a shareholder group with combined assets of £14.5tn, has increased pressure on Sports Direct by criticising the retailer’s corporate governance failings. The group said it did not regard a review of employment practices being carried out by RPC, Sports Direct’s lawyers, as independent, echoing the views of other shareholders.  Janet Williamson, a senior policy officer at the TUC, the trade union umbrella body, and the chair of Trade Union Share Owners, said: “Trade Union Share Owners is very pleased with the support we are getting from investors for our resolution calling for the board of Sports Direct to commission an independent report on human capital practices and report back within six months. “Sports Direct’s treatment of its staff has damaged its relationship not only with its workforce but with its investors. We hope that investors’ support for this resolution will encourage the company to think again.” For the first time this year, independent shareholders will hold real sway at Sports Direct’s AGM, because of new regulatory rules governing companies that have a controlling shareholder with a stake of 30% or more. In the past, Ashley, who owns a 55% stake, was able to outvote any detractors. But now the election of non-executive directors, such as Hellawell, must be approved separately by minority shareholders. To go against their wishes, Sports Direct would be forced to hold another vote between three and six months later. While Ashley could outvote minority shareholders at that point, such a move would be highly contentious. In an effort to win over its critics, Sports Direct announced earlier this week that it would open its doors to the public on the day of the AGM, held in Shirebrook, Derbyshire. Directors will answer questions and take visitors on a tour of the site, including the warehouse. In July, it was announced that thousands of warehouse workers would receive back pay totalling about £1m after the retailer admitted breaking the law by not paying the national minimum wage. A Guardian investigation last year exposed the fact that Sports Direct workers were being paid less than the legal requirement. The company and the employment agencies it uses face fines of up to £2m. 