 When the Elevation Dock, an accessory for the iPhone 4 hewn from a single chunk of solid aluminium, finished its Kickstarter campaign in February 2012, it became the first million-dollar project to raise funds through the site. Two years later, Oculus, formed from another Kickstarter campaign to produce a virtual-reality headset, sold itself to Facebook for $2bn, becoming the first billion-dollar company started through crowdfunding. Oculus's sale price was more than double the total of every dollar pledged to any previous successful Kickstarter project. It solidified the reputation of crowdfunding in general, and Kickstarter in particular, as a viable alternative to traditional routes to starting a company. But that wasn't the reputation that Kickstarter intended to have at the start. It began in 2009 with the mission "to help bring creative projects to life". The first of the crowdfunding sites, it allows creators to raise money for a project. Backers decide how much they want to pledge, usually in exchange for a reward of some sort, and if the creator raises the full amount they asked for, Kickstarter will hand them the cash and they can get to work making something new. Its first big success was letting New York-based singer-songwriter Allison Weiss raise money to record a new EP. She hit her goal of $2,000 in eight hours and went on to raise almost four times that. Until last year, the site was explicit in stating that users could not use it to start a business. Even now, although that rule has been relaxed, Kickstarter still emphasises that it is "a funding platform for creative projects". How well can one site serve such different audiences? Is Kickstarter's uneasy position at the crossroads between art and commerce somewhere it can stay forever, or will the company have to make up its mind? Where does the heart of Kickstarter lie? The company's offices, in a former pencil factory in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, make the case that it is first and foremost focused on artistic endeavours. After moving into the premises in the early 2014 (a consequence of growth that left them so cramped in their Lower East Side offices in New York that the final few hires didn't have desks), the first thing they did was hold a block party for the neighbourhood, hosting tens of thousands of locals and creatives. One attraction of the party was the first show of their new art gallery. Open to the public, it features work from visual artists who have found support on Kickstarter over the years, including performance artists from the Marina Abramovic Institute, new media artist Jeremy Bailey and expressionist painter Marshall Arisman. As well as the gallery, the building has a cinema, which holds premieres of films backed on the site, and a library with a mixture of books and board games, some also born out of Kickstarter and others with more pedigree. (Judging by conversations with staff, the library is most adored for hosting the company's weekly dungeons and dragons night.) Then there's the weekly email to users, a vastly different beast from the typical corporate mailshot. Nothing but plain text and links, it features a smattering of links from across the web as well as personal selections by various staff of active Kickstarter projects. In this week's email, an article about rapper 50 Cent from GQ is highlighted alongside one employee's selection of an anthology of protest comics, and CEO and co-founder Yancey Strickler's choice, an early music festival in New York. "The entire idea was, 'Let's do something only because we think it's cool and interesting, and for no other reason'," Strickler explains when we sit down on the office's verdant roof terrace to talk. In a plaid shirt, with sunglasses to keep out the May sunshine, he fits in with the hipster surroundings of north west Brooklyn as well as the rest of his employees. "There are no ulterior motives other than genuinely sharing things we enjoy. I was really proud of that. I feel like there's not a lot of that in the world." A few minutes with Strickler and it's clear that it's being a part of this artistic scene that motivates him. Kickstarter isn't his first job; the 35-year-old was brought in by his co-founders, Perry Chen and Charles Adler, from eMusic, the digital music store where he had risen to become editor-in-chief. Before then, he was the managing editor at FlavorPill, a site cataloguing the best cultural events in New York. Get him on to those topics, and he will talk without reservation (or pause). But when conversation shifts to the business of Kickstarter, he grows more measured. He describes himself as the company's "thinker", and earns that title. For all that people outside Kickstarter have been pondering the company's future, the impression given by Strickler is of someone well aware that his passion depends on being able to see the problems down the road. As the company grows and the original goal gets more and more distant from the new hires who come in, Strickler hopes that quirks such as the email will gel the team. "We're not interested in being a monolithic entity on the internet. We're representing the interests of, hopefully, a large section of humanity. "From the start it was just: it's way too hard for people to make things they want to make because it's just not going to make someone money. And we were feeling frustrated by that, thinking about Arrested Development, thinking about David Lynch, thinking about, I don't know. All those things were decisions about culture that were made from the perspective of money, and it just feels so frustrating. 'Oh my God, why don't people get it? Why don't people just get it? This is just good. This should exist because it's good.' Like, why does this other stuff matter? "The overarching goal is to provide a way for people to make the things they want to make. I think that's been consistent, though a lot of ways that you relate to it have evolved. When we first launched the thing, we were just hoping anyone would see it." Users soon caught on to the broad concept of Kickstarter, even before the company had fully sorted out what it wanted to be. Weiss's campaign, the first significant success on the site, closed just five months after it opened to the public. At the time, Kickstarter accepted projects in its core creative fields of film, music, and art, but also had some less obvious options: "There was 'adventure' as a category. We removed it in our first year, it's one that I look back on and feel fondly towards." Comedy and journalism were removed around the same time, though they were reintroduced in a rules update on 11 June:"It was very broad. I think most of what we have now was reflected back then in some way." One thing not present at the start was a hardware category, the source of many of Kickstarter's biggest successes, as well as some of its more notable failures. The Glif was the first hardware project on the site. A tripod stand for the iPhone 4 launched in 2010 and "really just went nuts. It's what brought hardware on to Kickstarter and really changed the hardware industry for good … I don't think we could have predicted that hardware would be a primary use case for Kickstarter when we started, because people weren't making hardware at this scale before. [You had to] operate a scale of, like, a million units, so this just flat out did not exist." Kickstarter is not the only reason for that gradual shift – the opening up of Chinese manufacturing, the growth of 3D printing and rapid-prototyping, and the plummeting cost of the electronics needed to make complex consumer goods all had a role to play – but in creating a retail pipeline for sales of small quantities of goods, it helped a great deal. Hardware entrepreneurs say the most useful aspect of the site today isn't the fundraising, but proof that a market for your product exists. It's worth saying at this point that other crowdsourcing sites are available. The biggest, and best-known, alternative is IndieGoGo, which has carved a niche in the spaces that Kickstarter refuses to operate. That has meant everything from accepting British projects, back when Kickstarter was US-only, to allowing charity fundraising and the like. It's perhaps best known for its "flexible funding" model, which lets creators keep the money they raise for a project even if they don't hit their target. Some of the gaps in Kickstarter's repertoire, like the lack of a hardware category, were oversights, but other restraints were more an attempt to guide the growth of the site itself. "In the first year I was very concerned that the site would be overrun with music projects or something, and that you'd get some MySpace effect, where it's like, 'oh, that's the site where people go to do music stuff'. We always wanted to be something much broader," says Strickler. While banning music was out of the question, that was the rationale behind the site's longstanding ban on using Kickstarter to start websites. "We didn't want to be a site where a bunch of startups are raising their money. This is something broader than that." Kickstarter's ban on using the site to start a company started with the same intention. But though it stood for four years, it eventually ran into problems. "Trying to define a business is a very challenging thing. Most people, when they start making a film, start an LLC [limited liability company]. Does creating an LLC constitute starting a business? What does that really mean? I think that was one of those rules that was written more broadly than was intended. We were trying say 'focus on actually just, like, making a thing'." Oculus's thing was the Rift headset. It uses an array of movement sensors and a screen strapped to the user's face to serve up immersive virtual worlds at a fraction of the cost of older virtual reality systems. More than 5,500 backers on the site pledged $300 to receive an early developer kit, and some pledged up to $5,000 for extra rewards on top. A further 1,000 gave smaller sums, $10 and up, for no reward beyond being kept up to date about progress, to "help us take gaming to the next level". In total, Oculus raised almost $2.5m from 9,522 backers, and in March 2013 (four months later than promised) shipped out those prototype versions to backers. It fulfilled its promise. So why was there so much anger when, a year later, it sold to Facebook? "This is a huge betrayal," wrote one backer on the Kickstarter page. "I want my donation back," said another. "I'm kind of horrified." "I regret backing this." "Sellout Dicks." Some of the anger was over who, exactly, had bought Oculus. For the hacker community that Oculus had courted, Facebook is the company they love to hate. But that's not the whole story. "They were sold an idea," says Austin Walker, over the phone from Toronto. Walker is a PhD candidate at the University of Western Ontario, where he looks at the ways technology can be mishandled or abused to become exploitative. "That this is a cool independent thing, like when they used to make computers in their garages, this is a tiny exciting thing. Then a lot of the games that came out felt like that! They were experimental, games where you would walk around a house and look at stuff. So it had an authentic, underground feeling." But even before the sale, Walker wonders if people were fooling themselves slightly: "No one asked the end goal. That product was never going to be a little indie thing. The goal from the jump was: we have something cool that we're going to bring to as many people as possible." If anything, Walker seems surprised that it took people so long to realise that Oculus was going mainstream. "Especially after they got some VC backing … it was clear what the end game was." That aspect of the Oculus buyout is something Walker sees frequently on the site. "A lot of campaigns walk the line between art and commerce. They deploy the rhetoric of an art project to ensure an emotional buy-in that will then lead to a financial buy-in. And that emotional buy-in is part of the reason why people get upset." "People backed Oculus to say: I want to be part of this thing. The backlash comes because they aren't part of it, and can never be." The end game need not necessarily have been in conflict with the backers' indie roots, however. But it was always going to expose the contradiction at Kickstarter's heart: that it brings together a community to support the creation of things, but then accrues the benefits to an individual. "I don't think people have the words for it," Walker says. "My sense from talking to people after it happened is that they were like, 'here we go again'.Even if I make $80k, and want to help make cool things, I'm not allowed to support them in the same way someone who makes $800k can. I'm allowed to consume; they're allowed to invest." Since the creation of Kickstarter sparked the crowdfunding boom, some have taken that thought to its logical conclusion. In the US, the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups (Jobs) Act lifted restrictions on micro-investment, allowing companies not listed on the stock market to still take investment in a slightly less structured way than previously. But in the UK, that was already legal, and Seedrs, a micro-investment firm launched in July 2012, was one of the first. More than 50 firms have raised capital on the market, offering full-blown equity rather than "rewards" to backers. "When rewards are the only game in town, then funders don't have much of a choice," says the firm's CEO and founder, Jeff Lynn, in an email. "If they like a company and want it to succeed, they can only do so by providing funds in exchange for rewards. This is the case in the United States, where equity crowdfunding isn't yet legal, and it was also the case in Europe very recently." It's easy to see why a backer might prefer to take equity in a company rather than settle for a reward: Lynn estimates that an Oculus Rift backer, who had been awarded equity in the company instead of getting a free headset, would have seen their $300 stake rise to around $20,000. But he warns that that sum "has to be viewed in light of the risks taken. Someone who funded $300 only bore the risk that Oculus would not be able to make and deliver the headset. An investor bears the risk of the company's overall success and ability to exit, which is significantly higher." After all, if you back Oculus on Kickstarter, and the company delivers your headset then goes bust, you still have your headset; if you back a company on Seedrs, it's all or nothing. Lynn argues that a start-up which raises money through Kickstarter is engaging in "a pure commercial transaction. All the funder really cares about is getting his/her product, and if anything he/she may be disappointed if you go on to be too successful [as in the case of Oculus]." But the experience of companies started on Kickstarter suggests that isn't always the case. Pebble was one of the early Kickstarter success stories, raising $10m on the site two years ago to build one of the first commercially available smartwatches. The firm's founder, Eric Migicovsky, cites the support of backers as crucial to building the community Pebble thrives on. "There's an amazing global community that's grown around Pebble, which includes many of the people who participated in our Kickstarter campaign," he told the Observer by email. "The overwhelming support we got from the Kickstarter community was incredible. We were completely blown away and definitely wouldn't be here today without them." Migicovsky also denies one of the more worrying claims levelled against businesses started on Kickstarter: that they are just doing it to get a better deal than they would have got through traditional funding: "We chose to raise money with Kickstarter because the more traditional venture funding sources were not receptive to our initial concept." Pebble had begun as a project at the influential YCombinator startup incubator, but graduating beyond that was difficult: "In early 2012, we went to back VCs and angels, but again, the feedback we got was that 'hardware is difficult', so we weren't able to raise any additional capital. A few months later in April, at the recommendation of a few friends and fellow entrepreneurs, we launched our Kickstarter campaign." But for Walker, the fact that backers are helping bring things into the world that otherwise wouldn't exist isn't enough. "The consumption you do on Kickstarter is really great! It feels like supporting a local business or band, and it's rewarding to give your money to something that feels like a long shot. "I do it too. When I back an independent cyberpunk project, I'm thinking 'I want to be a patron of this thing'. But I'm not. I'm just a customer. And not even a customer, really, because they don't offer retail protections either. People use it like a pre-order platform, but if their goods never get shipped, they don't get their money back." If there's a general theme in the criticism of Kickstarter, it's that by falling between categories, it manages to avoid the responsibilities of either. People use it to buy things, but (as the firm emphatically proclaims) "Kickstarter is not a store" – so it doesn't have to offer the same protections. People use it to be a part of the creation of new companies – but they aren't investors, so they don't get offered a fair return. People use it to support struggling creator – but the artists themselves need to offer tangible rewards, sometimes bankrupting themselves in the process, the victims of their own success. When I put that suggestion to Strickler, though, he disagrees. It's not that Kickstarter hovers in the middle of three categories: for him, it's an entirely new class of human exchange. "Maybe 99.99% of money that moves," he says, is one of three modes: "There's investment, there's commerce and there's philanthropy." And Kickstarter, though it has similarities, isn't any of them. "It's similar to commerce, in that there's an end-product that is being shared. But, unlike commerce, on Kickstarter you are supporting it before it actually exists. It's similar to investment in that the money is up front. And it's similar to philanthropy in that a lot of the pledges are motivated by a desire to just, like 'this seems cool, I would like it to exist. The world would be better if this happened'. "But if we were full commerce, then there's no more prospective projects. There's no more someone trying to create the future. You're Etsy." And so it comes back to responsibility. Etsy, a site which lets small craftspeople sell their goods, takes on some, offering to mediate between buyers and sellers, enforcing strict standards of reliability. What does Kickstarter do instead? "I think the primary responsibility is to be really clear about what this is, and educate people. There are all sorts of choices we've made to underlie that, you know? There's no shopping cart on Kickstarter, because that's too e-commerce. "Sometimes we'll talk about a feature, then we'll be like 'right, this is a shopping cart'. This already exists, and it's called a shopping cart! That honestly might make an experience that has a little more friction for backers, but we think will underlie what this system actually is." A few weeks after we met, Kickstarter announced another raft of changes. The firm is almost completely simplifying its rules, maintaining only a short list of banned activities: don't fundraise for charity, offer financial incentives, or involve prohibited items (things such as alcohol or firearms). Instead, the guiding philosophy is being simplified. "Projects must create something to share with others." It's broad enough to happily hold the startup raising money for a cool piece of tech, and the musician trying to fund a new EP. And that breadth, it seems, comes straight from the heart of Kickstarter itself. It wants to help people make things. More than that is up to them. 