 Roll up for another white-knuckle ride on the Tim Henman rollercoaster. The British No1 may have been suffering from an upset stomach during his fourth round five-setter against Switzerland's Michel Kratochvil on Monday, but pity the poor fans whose own stomachs have been lurching for the last six years as Henman has led them on one swooping, looping Wimbledon journey after another. On the face of it, his quarter-final against the Brazilian Andre Sa, ranked No90 in the world, ought to be the steadiest and most gentle of occasions - three breaks of serve and a straight sets win. But Henman followers will know well enough that in his matches slips between cup and lip are not so much many as super abundant.  Clearly nobody can be sure on this occasion how Henman will feel, or whether his stamina, never totally reliable, will hold up. Sa must also be feeling tired, but yesterday he was maintaining the most cheerful of outward appearances, which could be described as stereotypically Brazilian.  On Sunday evening the London underground was full of celebrating Brazilians, and even if you could not understand what they were saying the word Ronaldo was obvious enough. It seems unlikely, even should he win the Wimbledon title, that the name of Sa will be celebrated with quite such enthusiasm next Sunday.  "It's unbelievable for me to be in this position," said the 25-year-old Sa, who has been used to Gustavo Kuerten, three times the French Open champion, capturing all the tennis headlines at home. Kuerten decided for the second year running not to come to Wimbledon, although given the success of the baseliners on the slower courts he would probably have profited.  After six years on the Tour Sa has never won a title, and never previously managed to get beyond the second round of a grand slam event. He ought to be meat and drink to the British No1 but no chickens will have been counted in the Henman household last night - or eaten either,possibly.  Sa may blow up completely on centre court today, but he vows he will not suffer from nerves. "What do I have to be nervous about. I never believed for a minute that I would be in the quarter-finals, so I intend to carry on enjoying myself. This is a huge opportunity for me, and if I play well I have a chance to win."  To reach the last eight Henman has faced players ranked 165, 230, 51 and 45 which might suggest he has had an easy passage. The fact that he has struggled so much, particularly against South Africa's Wayne Ferreira in the third round and then Kratochvil, makes nonsense of his continued affirmation that he is playing well. Should he not be able to defeat Sa in straight sets, there seems little likelihood of him beating Lleyton Hewitt in the semi-finals.  Assuming of course that Hewitt gets the better of the Netherlands' Sjeng Schalken. Nothing in the men's tournament this year can be taken for granted. 