Former deputy PM Nick Clegg, leading lady of Labour’s antisemitism row Naz Shah and comedy Tory Jacob Rees-Mogg show us what they get up to in their constituencies. Beyond the rough and tumble of the Commons are MPs’ surgeries, where constituents rival the sternest of TV interviewers in grilling their representatives on everything from blocked drains to Brexit. The quirks of the electorate make this good fun. Grace Rahman It’s… celebrity cycling! This show isn’t mucking about, either: after not enough training, a gang of famous rookies are tasked with the 146km Etape du Tour in the French Alps. Tears and sweat flow in an opening episode that sets up the impossibility of the task, and the schism in the casting: former sports pros are thrown in with TV presenters and structured-reality preeners. Memorable moments include Louie Spence getting lost and Lucy Mecklenburgh almost being crushed by a van. Jack Seale In an era in which the NHS is under threat like never before, this new series, stripped across the week, follows the camera-kitted paramedics (a TV first) of West Midlands Ambulance Service; their conversations, call-outs and challenges. Heaven forbid a single second of even our most intimate circumstances should go undocumented these days, but this usefully underscores the beautiful calmness of these everyday heroes. Here, they treat panic attacks and seizures. Ali Catterall When it comes to the uncertain world of fertility treatment, all patients want to give themselves the best possible chance of success. There are UK clinics offering enticing, if often wildly expensive, upgrades to standard treatment. But do these baby bolt-ons genuinely increase the likelihood of conception? With the help of an undercover reporter, Deborah Cohen sets out to discover if anxious would-be parents are being fleeced. Graeme Virtue Conclusion of a two-part reflection on the closure of Kellingley colliery – Britain’s last deep coal mine – and what it means for the 450 people working there. There are two narratives woven together here: one of men taking pride in difficult work and enjoying the camaraderie it engenders; another of the same men trying, with varying degrees of success, to adjust to new lives. It’s a pointed illustration of the necessity of a sense of purpose. Andrew Mueller It’s the 1970s and things are on the up for the Irwins. They’ve become homeowners, although it’s worth noting that many black Britons bought property in part because it was so difficult to access council housing. From here, we’re whisked through three decades that encompass the West Indies cricket team thrashing England in 1976 and the Brixton riots. Plus a meeting with Soul II Soul’s Jazzie B, which proves unexpectedly emotional. Jonathan Wright The second run of the series following seven young people with Down’s syndrome begins with an episode focused on the Down Syndrome Association of Orange County’s red-carpet ball. The need to get a date is paramount, but complications arise as Steven struggles to find someone to take. From the creators of Keeping Up With The Kardashians, a glossy, feelgood show that nonetheless offers real insights into the lives of its subjects and their families. JW Adulthood (Noel Clarke, 2008) 12.05am, Channel 5The account of young west London gangsters in Kidulthood is followed up with this slice of Brit criminal drama. Again Clarke snaffles all the cliches of the genre and Adulthood wears its heart throbbing on its hoodie sleeve, but it still makes a vivid impact. This is set six years on, with Sam on his first day out of prison and struggling to avoid the old violence. Test Cricket: India v England More action from the third Test in Mohali. Can Alastair Cook’s team force a victory? 6am, Sky Sports 2 Snooker: UK Championship Coverage of the sixth day at the Barbican Centre in York. 1pm, BBC2 Championship Football: Huddersfield Town v Wigan Athletic Struggling Wigan visit high-flying Huddersfield. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1 