Have you ever wondered what would have happened if Carrie Bradshaw had ended up married in the suburbs, older, sadder and not necessarily wiser, juggling debt, teenage kids and a hangdog husband she no longer loves to whom she has “literally nothing to say”? If so, HBO’s new comedy Divorce might be for you. But that’s not to say the show, created by Sharon Horgan and starring Sarah Jessica Parker, isn’t its own interesting beast. It’s Parker’s first leading television role since Sex and the City finished in 2004 and she plays Frances, a frustrated woman approaching 50 with the quiet rage of someonestuck in a rut she can’t imagine a way out of. The echoes of Parker’s former small screen self are surely deliberate. We first see Frances wrapped in a towel starring in the mirror at her naked face as she prepares for a night out. Although she’s talking to her husband (Thomas Haden Church) the camera initially frames it as though she’s talking to the audience, confessional, Carrie-style. Later on she sits with her two best friends at a dinner party and they talk with brutal frankness about their husbands’ failings in a scene that plays like the discontented flip side to all those raucous Cosmopolitan-fueled brunches.  In moments like this it’s hard to escape the feeling that Horgan is essentially daring the audience to compare the two shows. “Look,” she seems to be saying. “Forget the happy ever after fantasy Sex And The City sold you – this is reality, dissatisfaction in the suburbs and a life where every time your husband repeats a punchline rather than simply laughing a little part of you shrivels and dies.” The elegant Parker, a better comic actor than she’s often given credit for, plays along gamely, giving us a portrait of a woman who is determined, despite everything, to endure. Her Frances is outwardly pinched and pursed of lip, yet with intriguing hints of something warmer and more vital lurking within. We don’t quite support her, not yet at least, but Parker’s smart, contained performance does enough to convince us we might if we could just spend a little more time at her side. In particular the scenes where she travels to the city to visit her lover, Jemaine Clement’s self-satisfied and selfish Julian, offer an interesting glimpse of a different Frances, one who throws herself into life head-on rather than sitting watchfully on the sidelines as her noisier friends hold court.  Yet for all her leading lady’s charms, in the opening episode at least, this is Horgan’s show. “She couldn’t handle the atmosphere in the house so she choked herself to death,” remarks Molly Shannon’s Diane of her beloved and recently deceased pug in one of many just deadpan enough lines that could only have been written by the co-creator of Pulling and Catastrophe. Horgan’s mordant wit, willingness to experiment with tone and knack for pushing social situations beyond the funny into the intensely awkward drives Divorce’s action and it’s a delight to see her apply Catastrophe’s caustic take on marriage to the Westchester suburbs and the American picket fence dream.  She’s aided by a top-notch supportingcast with Tracy Letts a particular standout, delivering a brutal and bitter birthday toast that echoes, whether intentionally or not, his acclaimed turn as George on stage in Who’s Afraid Of Virginia Woolf? Haden Church also shines as the gloomy Robert, a man who can turn even the offer of head into an act of supreme passive-aggression. Yet for all its pleasures, Divorce lacks the warmth of Catastrophe, the sense that even though Sharon and Rob can be awful, both to each other and to those around them, it’s OK because they both acknowledge it and have a genuine romantic connection. By contrast Frances and Robert are at the fag end of their relationship, incapable of even a half-hearted smoulder as they search desperately for a way out. It’s a bleak vision – although perhaps necessarily so given the subject matter. Where Sex and the City was a romantic dream of thirtysomething female life, infused with can-do optimism and a rose-tinted belief that everything would turn out just fine in the end, Divorce is a darker, spikier affair tinged with melancholy and regret over roads not taken and lives half lived. “How do you go from eight years of a happy marriage to wanting to blow someone’s head off?” Frances muses. At its best Divorce shows us with an unflinching stare.  