 Last week, we had the stimulus package – next week it'll be sun, sea and shooting: the Beach Bum update is coming to GTA Online on 19 November. The first new content pack for Grand Theft Auto V's multiplayer mode will download automatically adding new clothes, weapons, vehicles and jobs to the already vast array. Deathmatch, Parachute, Last Team Standing, Survival and Gang Attack mission types are all represented. Today, Rockstar updated its website with details of some of the jobs set to be on offer: Grass Route II (Race): In this sequel to the original popular Grass Route Race, go off-road in an epic heat starting on the North bank of the Zancudo river through the treacherous wetlands with a triumphant finish on the beach in North Chumash. Survival on Del Perro Pier (Survival): Skip the ferris wheel for a deadlier kind of thrill ride as you take on waves of relentless enemies at this beachfront attraction. View of Vespucci (Parachuting): This leap sends you from 2,980 feet, down towards Vespucci Beach, weaving through palm trees to land on the basketball courts of the rec center. If you've got skills, it's possible to freefall through the first few checkpoints before even opening your chute. Paleto Beach (Team Deathmatch): The locals complain that not a lot happens in this sleepy town, so do them a favor and wake them up with a barrage of gunfire exchanged between you and a rival team. This Team Deathmatch takes place right on the romantic shoreline for 4-8 players. Sundae Driving (Bike Race): Sure to be a new fan-favorite motorbike race, menace Vespucci Beach on your two-wheel rocket, taking breakneck corners as you try and best the competition. Meanwhile, the new beach-themed vehicles will be the BF Bifta dune buggy, the Canis Kalahari off-road truck, the Bravado Paradise beach camper van and the Speeder speedboat, which has been cropping up in the games since GTA III. Meanwhile bushy blonde surfer dude hair, tribal tattoos and baggy shorts will also be available for that authentic beach bum look. The publisher is also promising more content over the next few weeks including co-op heists, Capture the Flag, and new story mode elements. And surely it's only a matter of time before we get zombies. 