The nominations for the European film awards have been revealed, with German film Toni Erdmann leading the way. It has five nominations, one in each of the five main categories. Maren Ade’s film won the Golden Iris in Brussels and was one of the best received films at Cannes this year. It is also Germany’s entry for the best foreign-language film at next year’s Oscars. On top of the best European film nomination, Ade has been nominated for best director and screenwriter, while Sandra Hüller and Peter Simonischek are up for the female and male acting awards. Among the films Toni Erdmann will compete against for the main prize is Ken Loach’s social-realist drama I, Daniel Blake, which won the Palme d’Or in Cannes ahead of Ade’s film. Paul Verhoeven’s Elle and Pedro Almodóvar’s Julieta, two more films nominated at Cannes, are also competing for the award. The final entry in the best film category is Lenny Abrahamson’s Room, which was nominated for best picture and best director at the 2016 Oscars and for which Brie Larson won the best actress award. I, Daniel Blake has four nominations, including for Loach as director, Paul Laverty for screenplay and Dave Johns as best actor.  Julieta has three nominations: best European film, best European director and a shared acting nomination for Emma Suárez and Adriana Ugarte, who play the title character. Elle also has three nominations, including recognition for director Verhoeven and star Isabelle Huppert, while Room and Cristian Mungiu’s Romanian drama Graduation have two nominations each. The awards ceremony will take place on 10 December in Wroclaw, Poland. European film Elle (France/Germany)I, Daniel Blake (UK/France)Julieta (Spain)Room (Ireland/Canada)Toni Erdmann (Germany/Austria) European director Maren Ade (Toni Erdmann)Pedro Almodóvar (Julieta)Ken Loach (I, Daniel Blake)Cristian Mungiu (Graduation)Paul Verhoeven (Elle) European actress Valeria Bruni Tedeschi (Like Crazy)Trine Dyrholm (The Commune)Sandra Hüller (Toni Erdmann)Isabelle Huppert (Elle)Emma Suárez & Adriana Ugarte (Julieta) European actor Javier Cámara (Truman)Hugh Grant (Florence Foster Jenkins)Dave Johns (I, Daniel Blake)Burghart Klaussner (The People vs Fritz Bauer)Rolf Lassgård (A Man Called Ove)Peter Simonischek (Toni Erdmann) European screenwriter Maren Ade (Toni Erdmann)Emma Donoghue (Room)Paul Laverty (I, Daniel Blake)Cristian Mungiu (Graduation)Tomasz Wasilewski (United States of Love) See the full list of nominations here 