From Beach Boys’ vibes to My Bloody Valentine’s tremolo and phasers, RR’s magicman presents a wonderfully wobbly playlist from last week’s topic 
Ralph Brown 
 Everything in this week’s playlist oscillates, trembles, quivers or wobbles. They are all Good Vibrations. I wondered last year why Jeff Beck of all people was on tour with Brian Wilson. I had him down as a denim-clad blues guy. He is so much more than that. Listen to Nadia played live, a delicate recreation of Nitin Sawnhey’s song from the 1999 LP Beyond Skin. Beck’s use of the vibrato bar on his Fender Stratocaster (having abandoned use of the plectrum in the 80s) is exquisite. All Indian singers look up to the great Lata Mangeshkar who recorded more than 5,000 songs in a long career matched only by her sister Asha Bhosle. Her vocal technique is stunningly expressive here sympathetically joined on Wada Na Tod (Don’t Break Your Promise) by shimmering strings, wavering flutes and quivering organ work.  Luther Vandross’s finest performance is probably his cover of the Bacharach tune A House Is Not a Home. The quivering plea for his lover to be at home makes my eyes water every time I hear it. I have heard very few singers utilise vibrato with such taste.  In the late 50s and early 60s is was illegal to record a tune without a guitar twanging around with vibrato. On the Everly Brothers’ Price of Love from 1965 we get harmonica, guitar reverb and two voices singing so clearly and with such harmony that a kind of natural vibrato occurs between all four instruments. Magic.  Vibrato singing is treasured throughout the Mediterranean, transcending cultures, borders and religions. Mor Kabasi is of Moroccan and Persian heritage, born Israeli, currently living in Spain and singing in the Sephardic tradition – the music of the exiled Jews of Spain, in a language called Ladino.  Looped guitar, fuzz, tremolo, phasers set to stun. My Bloody Valentine layered guitar effects on top of guitar effects to create the classic shoegaze wall of sound adored by the post-punk generation. A revelation to me, as I’d never really listened to them properly before.  More recent guitar shudder echoes from my headphones as Radiohead thunder into Planet Telex and a shiver goes down my spine. What a thrilling song this is. You can force it but it will not come. Everything is broken … Radiohead made prog rock acceptable, where Pink Floyd once ruled. From their magnum opus Dark Side of the Moon comes On the Run, genius early electronica that goes from speaker to speaker, like the music accompanying a nightmarish video game. This is an instrumental that tells a story. LFO were formed in 1988 when Mark Bell and Gez Varley met in Leeds. The Low Frequency Oscillator – a synthesiser function – dominates their early rave techno hits including the Leeds Warehouse Mix of their first single LFO. Mark died in 2014 having worked on seven of Björk’s albums as well as his own electronic music. Mongolian throat singing is quite extraordinary. Its human mimicry of nature’s sounds is essentially overtone technique – singing two notes at the same time, one vibrating deep in the throat. Check out Khusugtun and their recent song Mongol.  No track made me happier this week than John Martyn’s Small Hours, taking me back to student life in late-70s London. I chose the live version because there is a wonderfully captured warmth in the room.  And finally yet another discovery – the English singer Kathleen Ferrier. Das Lied Von Der Erde (6th mvmt pt 3), written by Gustav Mahler in 1909 is such an extraordinary piece of music that it melted me.  So many more superb nominations. Shame I couldn’t choose them all. Happy New Year! 1. Good Vibrations – the Beach Boys 2. Nadia – Jeff Beck 3. Wada Na Tod – Lata Mangeshkar 4. A House Is Not a Home – Luther Vandross 5. The Price of Love – the Everly Brothers 6. Shecharhoret – Mor Karbasi 7. I Only Said – My Bloody Valentine 8. Planet Telex – Radiohead 9. On the Run – Pink Floyd 10. LFO – LFO 11. Mongol - Khusugtun 12. Small Hours (live) – John Martyn 13. Das Lied Von Der Erde (6th movement part 3) – Kathleen Ferrier, written by Gustav Mahler  