  • For tennis worshippers the sun may be blissful; for the medical corps here it is a burden. Yesterday Wimbledon's first-aid centre was bracing itself for another busy afternoon with victims of the latest bout of Henmania the major headache.  Fortunately the weather cooled slightly and a gentle breeze wafted through the grounds before the Briton started. But it was still warm enough for Mike Gibbons, operational commander for St John Ambulance at Wimbledon, and his 40 staff to be on full alert.  "We're up at least 25% in the number of cases treated at the first-aid centre on last year," he said. "A good quarter of the 1,050 people we've seen were suffering heat-related problems; fainting, sunstroke, heat exhaustion, sunburn. We've had 75 people in already today, and it's only 2.15pm.  "The big crowd up on the hill in Aorangi Park watching the screen haven't brought any real problems so far. We've not had to rush up to treat anyone there but it's obviously a concern. But the message overall about the sun seems to be getting across, especially because of cancer scares associated with sunburn have made an impact."  Some patients, he admits, are simply suffering from "overdoing the Pimm's". Most unusual case to date? "Treating a bird after it fell out of its nest and hurt its wing."  • Ever wonder what happens to all those balls at Wimbledon that are discarded so rapidly? The tournament receives around 15,000 for practice use and 22,000 for match play. Having been pummelled for the first seven games (and in the knock-up), they are changed, as they subsequently are every nine games. Their life span would seem brutally short to the park player. But they still have their uses. The balls are sold to clubs that are affiliated to the LTA but around 350 find a more unusual home, going to several wildlife trusts in England. There, with hole neatly punctured for the neck, they become a protective shell for endangered harvest mice. Strange, but true.  • ;British fans are right to indulge in Henmania while sparing some place in their hearts for the adopted Brit Greg Rusedski. There is not much to cheer under the top tier, despite Barry Cowan's extraordinary effort against Pete Sampras. The younger ones' progress compares dismally with foreign feats: only two of the world's top 10 juniors in the last decade have failed to go on and make the top 100 on the senior Tour. The men missing out? Britain's Jamie Delgado and Martin Lee. 