 The imminent release of Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia’s first tablet, the Windows RT 8.1-based Lumia 2520, aims to take on Apple’s iPad and the Microsoft Surface. A 10.1in Windows tablet, the Lumia 2520 is a direct challenge to Microsoft’s own Surface line of tablet computers – despite Nokia becoming a Microsoft company - and attempts to make Windows tablets more colourful, vibrant and connected with built-in 4G broadband support. The 2520 is Nokia’s first tablet but, given the clash with the Surface tablets, it could also be its last. So is it any good? The first early reviews are in, and the general consensus seems to be that it is no Surface or iPad killer. “Whereas Microsoft sees the Surface as kind of a laptop/tablet hybrid – a real productivity device – the 2520 is, at its heart, just a tablet. The 2520 has no kickstand, no full-sized USB port – not unless you buy the optional keyboard cover, anyway.” Decked out in glossy red plastic, the Lumia 2520 evokes the pop-art whimsy of 1970s product design. Corners are soft. Edges are chamferless. Sitting next to the Surface 2, the Lumia tablet looks like Andy Warhol sitting next to Darth Vader. Nokia has done a great job in creating visual separation between its first foray into the tablet market and Microsoft’s own tablet line, and from a purely aesthetic perspective, there’s something undeniably inviting about the 2520’s candy-coated shell. Unlike Microsoft, Nokia is no stranger to building apps for ARM devices, and so offers a number of proprietary services that run on top of Windows RT. Nokia HERE Maps, Nokia Music, Storyteller, Nokia Camera and the Nokia Video Director all make their way to the Lumia 2520. These are welcome additions to the standard Microsoft core apps that run on Windows 8.1 RT. The only problem with the Nokia-specific apps is that they require the user to establish a Nokia account instead of just using the Microsoft account that Windows 8.1 RT forces users to sign up for on Windows devices. Since Microsoft and Nokia are almost the same company, the two might as well push for a single sign-on for all the apps between the two companies. Nokia's first tablet isn't a bad device by any means. It delivers impressive gaming performance, has built-in cellular support, an incredibly bright screen, and includes a suite of Nokia-only apps. However, I couldn't figure out why the 2520 is so thick. The Microsoft Surface 2 has just as much girth, but earns its corpulence with a kickstand and a full USB port. The Lumia 2520's screen also has a distracting yellow tint, and the $149 keyboard/cover accessory isn't nearly as comfortable to type on as Surface 2's Type Cover. “Probably not. I want to like the Lumia. I really gravitate toward a design that I find cheery and colourful and different from everything else out there. But otherwise it's a pretty unremarkable tablet, running a the lackluster Windows RT OS with none of the Surface 2's redeeming qualities to help compensate. There's not much sense in buying the Lumia 2520 instead of the Surface 2 (if you need RT for some reason) except maybe LTE.” 