Gross-out films used to feature raucous antics. But recent supposedly wild comedies have featured respectable professionals letting their hair down – before knuckling down to their careers. Where did it all go wrong? 
Nicholas Barber 
 It may sound like the winner of a Feeblest Possible Title for a Hollywood Comedy competition, but there is a film coming out next week called Office Christmas Party. According to the press notes, it features Jennifer Aniston, Jason Bateman and others throwing an “epic” bash “to impress a potential client and close a sale that will save their jobs”. But can an office party, even an epic one, ever be hilarious? Are there 100 minutes of laughs to be had from secret santas, bowls of crisps, plastic cups of warm white wine and furtive snogs in the stationery cupboard? The sad thing is that Office Christmas Party is just one of many recent Hollywood comedies to be built on the concept of middle-aged, middle-class, white Americans doing something slightly naughty, before returning gratefully to the status quo. Never mind romantic comedies, gross-out comedies or ghostbusting comedies: over the past five years, they have been outnumbered by comedies concerning respectable thirty and fortysomething professionals loosening their ties, letting their hair down and behaving almost badly. In the past 12 months, we have had Bad Moms, in which Mila Kunis and Kristen Bell dare to drink wine, and Sisters, in which Tina Fey and Amy Poehler dare to invite their old schoolmates to a party at their parents’ house. Those, I’m afraid, are the wildest comic fantasies that Hollywood currently has to offer. The first glimmers of this trend were visible in 2009’s sloppily punctuated Couples Retreat, which had a group of married men and women, including Vince Vaughn, Jason Bateman (again) and Kristen Bell (again), going on a tropical holiday together to revive their ailing relationships. Next came 2010’s Date Night, with Steve Carell and Tina Fey (again) as suburbanites who go out in Manhattan to revive their own ailing relationship. But the film that crystallised the grownups-letting-off-steam subgenre was the Farrelly brothers’ Hall Pass in 2011. Owen Wilson and Jason Sudeikis star as two husbands with, yes, ailing relationships. In a last-ditch effort to save their marriages, their wives grant them a hiatus from their vows: for a week, they can do whatever, and whomever, they want. Of course, these born-again bachelors don’t do anything more excessive than drinking shots and eating hash brownies, and while Sudeikis has a fling, Wilson decides that his wife is the only woman for him. It’s a pretty tame conclusion for a film that was marketed as a raucous sex comedy, but it’s one that has been echoed ever since. In 2012’s Wanderlust, Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston (again) can no longer afford to live in their cupboard-sized New York “micro-loft” and they blunder into a hippy commune called Elysium. Could they be about to embark on a life of free love and al fresco nudity? Well, no – they scurry back to civilisation in time for the closing credits. In 2014’s Sex Tape, Cameron Diaz and Jason Segel revive yet another ailing relationship by filming themselves in – and out of – bed. But, rather than getting a taste for homemade porn, they end up destroying all evidence of their vileness. Watch the trailers of any of these films and you’ll see glimpses of hedonism: pounding dance music, booze, property damage, babes in bikinis. Watch the films themselves and you’ll be struck by how timid they are. All of these films are fixated on the primacy of marriage, even if the measures required to sustain that marriage – Couples Retreat, Date Night, Hall Pass, Sex Tape – raise the question of whether it’s worth the bother. They’re also adamant that you should hold on to your white-collar career as tightly as you hold on to your partner. In Wanderlust, the wanderers parlay their Elysium experience into a successful publishing company, while, in Office Christmas Party and 2015’s Unfinished Business, the purpose of partying is not to have a good time, but to butter up a client and close a deal. Bizarrely, even the short cartoon that’s shown before Disney’s latest animated epic, Moana, argues that it’s fine to spend your days as a corporate drone in a company called Boring, Boring & Glum, as long as you eat pancakes and go swimming at lunchtime. The moral of the cartoon, its director, Leo Matsuda, has said, “is that even though we have to follow our hearts, we also need to be realistic of our reality”. Inspirational stuff. To be highfalutin’ about it, you could say that comedy has always been a conservative genre – that these films adhere to the saturnalian tradition, framed by such critics as CL Barber and Mikhail Bakhtin, whereby social norms are inverted for a brief, pre-ordained period, only to snap back into place. But I can’t remember any other time when Hollywood has so insistently promoted the message that, if you aren’t satisfied with your mundane marriage or your nine-to-five job, you should have a night or two of self-indulgence before knuckling down to your commitments again. None of these supposedly rowdy comedies is about smashing the system. They’re all about getting something out of your system. The other thread running through them is that the characters misbehave in ways that were, until recently, the preserve of characters 20 years younger. Prior to Sex Tape, the last Hollywood comedy about amateur pornography falling into the wrong hands was 2000’s Road Trip – and the participants in that were students, not married parents. In American Pie and Superbad, it was school kids who threw a house party, not the grown women of Sisters. And in 2004’s Eurotrip, it was a gang of American teenagers who learned that there were sex and drugs and rock’n’roll waiting for them across the Atlantic. When Vince Vaughn (again) learns the same thing in Unfinished Business, while he is in Berlin on a business trip, it can’t help but seem pathetic. Mainstream Hollywood comedy has become one long wedding reception at which countless aunts and uncles drink champagne and dance badly while the youngsters look on and cringe. The most salient example is 2014’s Bad Neighbours. Hollywood’s biggest campus comedy in aeons, the film made $270m (£216m) on a budget of $18m and immediately prompted a cash-in sequel, this year’s Bad Neighbours 2: Sorority Rising. But unlike every previous frat-boy comedy, this one sees the generation gap from the perspective of the older generation. It isn’t the wayward students who are the protagonists, as they were in National Lampoon’s Animal House. Instead, the shirtless antics of Zac Efron, Dave Franco and their buddies are observed by the married parents who live next door, Seth Rogen and Rose Byrne. At first, they’re quite excited to have the opportunity to go to parties again, but soon all they care about are property prices and their baby’s sleep patterns. Compare that with Old School, which came out in 2003. In some ways, it’s a similar film, in that its heroes are thirtysomethings who enjoy some belated frat-house fun. (Inevitably, one of those heroes is played by Vince Vaughn.) The difference is that the characters in Old School have the chance to change their lives: two of them find new partners and one of them, played by Will Ferrell, becomes a fraternity’s leader. The characters in Bad Neighbours, on the other hand, allow themselves just one evening of debauchery. After that, they persuade the university to shut down the fraternity, then they embrace the responsibilities of parenthood. Screw you, millennials! So, what has changed in the decade between Old School and Bad Neighbours? My theory is that Generation X-ers – and I’m one of them – are so self-obsessed that we can’t stop telling the world how exhausting it is to be spouses and parents, hence all the ironic blogs and parodic Ladybird books on the subject. But the trend is also a result of the financial crash of 2008. Now that steady jobs are so hard to come by, Hollywood is wary of encouraging us to follow our dreams. A safer, more sensible option is to drink and dance sometimes – and then to settle back into the old work routine on Monday morning. All we have to look forward to, it seems, is the office Christmas party. Office Christmas Party is released in the UK on 7 December and in the US on 9 December 