Things are picking up for The Fall after a somewhat languid start. With Paul Spector now awake, and DSI Stella Gibson in possession of the lurid journals from his lockup, she can start building the case against him. There’s also the disturbing possibility that the journals might point to a string of other murders. But with Spector suffering severe memory loss – unless it’s a cunning ploy, of course – how the case will proceed is thrown into doubt. Ben Arnold The team’s investigations into the apparently random stabbing in the park continue, impeded only by emotional dramas: will Bobby connect with Lucy in spite of his visit with the high-spirited German detectives? Can Nina make it work with Alec? They’re enticingly close to tracking down the “ghost detective”. Key to it all, however, seems to be creepy Chris Crowley, the psychiatrist. A climactic episode; it’s hard to see this ending tidily for anyone. John Robinson This superb, bleakly realist, series reaches its penultimate episode tonight, with Naz looking so hardened by his brief incarceration that even if found innocent, he might find it hard to return to normality. Tonight, he’s involved in a bloody prison incident. Meanwhile, Box faces cross-examination by Chandra, very much at the centre of this episode, who questions how sure he is of Naz’s guilt, while Naz’s parents continue to suffer in the fallout from his arrest. David Stubbs Led by Maryam Namazie, the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain offers support to those who have turned their backs on Islam. As Deeyah Khan’s austere documentary unfolds, it’s clear that many need such support. Not only do those who declare atheism find themselves “shunned and ostracised”, they may also face violence. A report from Bangladesh, including the aftermath of a machete attack, is especially disturbing. Jonathan Wright The final part of Chris Packham’s surprisingly gonzo nature show, which sees the crusading birder presenting from a gothic bunker full of bubbling beakers and yellowing animal skulls. Up for scrutiny under Packham’s antique tabletop magnifier this week: inexplicable lights in the sky in Norway, a violent dolphin in Ireland and the discovery of a dead parrot in Australia that represents “the birdwatching equivalent of a supernova”. Graeme Virtue This year’s apprenti seem to be turning everything up to 11. In this episode, the teams plot an advertising campaign for designer jeans. And everything about it, from the near-breakdown of one project manager to the toe-curling pitches, is excruciating yet horribly compelling. As ever, it’s a goldmine for people who enjoy watching nightmarish business-bots shouting over the top of each other but the usual slim pickings for lovers of charm, wit and humility. Phil Harrison Season two of the horror-com by Ryan Murphy and his Glee/American Horror Story co-creators. It aims to marry the sass of one with the gore of the other, but ends up splashing about annoyingly in a shallow middle ground. Munsch (Jamie Lee Curtis) now runs a hospital, with John Stamos and Taylor Lautner as hunky surgeons. The zany plot is just another peg on which to hang Murphy’s tired snark about pop culture (Snapchat, Netflix) and fat or ugly people. Jack Seale Suzanne, (Katell Quillévéré, 2013), 1.35am, Film4 Young French director Quillévéré’s follow-up to Love Like Poison is another sensitive, deeply moving portrayal of turbulent youth. Sara Forestier is the passionate, spirited Suzanne, who grows up in Languedoc with her lorry-driver dad (François Damiens) and sister Maria (Adèle Haenel) after the death of her mother. It’s a loving little family, but teenage pregnancy and her relationship with young chancer Nicolas (Paul Hamy) create a world of trouble. Subtle, perceptive and gripping. Paul Howlett Golf: British Masters Coverage of the opening day at the Grove in Hertfordshire. 9am, Sky Sports 4 Rugby Challenge Cup: Harlequins v Stade Français Coverage of the contest in the opening round of fixtures, which takes place at the Stoop (kick-off 7.45pm). 7pm, Sky Sports 1 NFL: San Diego Chargers v Denver Broncos All the action from the AFC West game at Qualcomm Stadium. 1am, Sky Sports 1 