The decision to appoint Wonder Woman as an honorary United Nations’ ambassador for the empowerment of women and girls was never going to go down well with all parties. While Diana of Themyscira is ostensibly from a mysterious, magical island and is known for her kindness, decency and determination to protect the weak, the comic-book version of the superhero wears an outfit of US iconography and is usually depicted with a tiny waist and enormous breasts.  The staff members who chose to turn their backs when Gal Gadot, who plays the character on the big screen, was lauded at the UN alongside her 1970s forebear Lynda Carter, probably wondered why such a sexualised and westernised figure had been picked to represent women across the globe. But it could have been worse: DC could have sent Harley Quinn. At least Warner Bros cannot be blamed for the understandable reaction, except perhaps as the parent company of DC Comics. While the superhero has retained her spectacular proportions in print, she is played on the big screen, in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, by the slim and athletic Israeli actor Gadot, who has faced criticism from the meathead corner of the internet for not being bosomy enough for the role. From one point of view, Warner deserves praise here for finally jettisoning a Wonder Woman template that has been in place since the character’s creation in the 1940s. Unfortunately, the studio ruined that rare piece of good work by leering all over Margot Robbie’s Harley Quinn in the DC Expanded Universe follow-up Suicide Squad. Maybe the solo outing for the Amazonian princess, directed by Patty Jenkins, will make amends next year. Is Marvel doing any better? The Disney-owned studio has so far failed to produce a single female-led superhero feature, but is ready to make up for lost time with Captain Marvel in 2019. Not only has Marvel cast Oscar-winner Brie Larson as Carol Danvers, who took over the role in 2012, but studio president Kevin Feige now seems to be pitching the superhero as a future leader of the Avengers. “All the Marvel characters have flaws to them, all of them have a deep humanity to them,” he told Vulture. “With Captain Marvel, she is as powerful a character as we’ve ever put in a movie. Her powers are off the charts … and she will be by far the strongest character we’ve ever had.” One of the arguments often proposed by the so-called “men’s rights” brigade against female action heroes is that women are simply physically weaker than men. It’s a ridiculous proposition – speaking as a 16-stone bloke who would not last five seconds in the ring with Ronda Rousey – but one that is even sillier when applied to the fantasy world of superheroes, where power is rarely linked to size. Movies such as Mad Max: Fury Road, Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation and the new Jack Reacher: Never Go Back all feature women physically outdoing their male counterparts - and frankly, why not? Larson’s Captain Marvel offers an opportunity to revel in this phenomenon for comic effect. Let’s imagine the shock on Thor’s face when he realises this puny female newcomer is more than a match for his cosmic brawn. Might Danvers even be able to take down the Hulk? Captain Marvel comes across as a pleasingly progressive hero in other areas. Since the superhero’s reinvention four years ago – she was previously known as Ms Marvel – the character has swapped a series of revealing outfits for a rather more appropriate red and blue jumpsuit. One imagines critics of Wonder Woman’s UN role would be keen to take Danvers in her place. This doesn’t mean Marvel always gets it right: the studio has faced criticism for “whitewashing” Doctor Strange’s mentor the Ancient One from Tibetan to Celtic in a misguided attempt to please the Chinese market. But there has also been praise for casting Tilda Swinton’s casting as an apparently non-binary take on the powerful mystic. Another strike for diversity? At the very least, this is an addition studios would never have countenanced in the Superman movies of the 1970s and 80s. The oldies seem to be getting a run-out, too. The version of Wolverine featured in the new trailer for Hugh Jackman’s final turn as the adamantium-clawed mutant may not quite be the Old Man Logan of Mark Millar’s splendid graphic novel, but he’s looking a lot more crinkly than previous iterations. Perhaps even more encouragingly, there’s strong evidence that the teenage girl who appears alongside Jackman is the X-23 clone, who in the comics takes on the mantle of the new Wolverine. If the English actor Dafne Keen is confirmed in the role, there’s every chance 20th Century Fox’s film, titled Logan, could be the first instance in which Marvel Comics’ ongoing diversification programme – a new mixed-race Spider-Man, female Thor and female Iron Man have all featured in comics in the last couple of years – transfers to the big screen. I’m not sure superheroes should ever be pitched as role models, especially not at the level of an organisation like the United Nations. But comic book movies can be a progressive force without necessarily treading into uncomfortably wholesome territory. There is clearly a place for a diverse vision of superheroes at the multiplex in 2016 – even if Quinn will most likely not be taking up her seat at the UN any time soon. 