 Alex Bogdanovic had moments yesterday when it seemed he might beat a top-50 player for the first time but in the end his 7-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-6 first-round defeat by Simone Bolelli symbolised so much about the predicament of British professional tennis. A talented but continually underachieving player slips further down the rankings, with a highly paid, big-name coach set to leave for better things when his contract expires in three months' time. Brad Gilbert, earning £750,000 for his 40 weeks' coaching a year, was given the task of trying to revive Bogdanovic's fortunes in February, when the Belgrade-born Londoner was 188th in the world. The hope was that the fastest-talking teacher of them all, the master of pragmatic tactics and the guru of "positive vibes", might add confidence and aggression to Bogdanovic's game. Yesterday he certainly played nearer to his ability and, if he had converted his two set points at 6-5 in the fourth set, it might have become a different story. But all too often his career has been a matter of "if". For all Bogdanovic's skill in the rallies and his effective, sliding left-handed serve, which he lost only once, Bolelli delivered 18 well-timed aces and came up with something bigger on the bigger points. Since Gilbert joined forces with him Bogdanovic has lost 14 of his 25 matches and slipped more than 50 places to world No242. He has now played seven singles matches at Wimbledon and lost them all. He defended Gilbert as best he could. "I have definitely made progress with him," he claimed. "I am physically a lot stronger and for the first time I feel I would have won had it gone to a fifth set. He has got me playing more aggressively. It's only a matter of time." It was rather strange, then, when he added: "I don't think we expected to get better results." What he meant was that it will take longer for Gilbert's influence to work through. But he accepted that there might be no more wild cards into Wimbledon and that in future he wants to enter as of right. This would mean a huge ranking climb of about 150 places - and that is the target. "He's been very supportive and he still believes I can be a top-100 player - for me that's a huge thing," he said. However, the chances of Gilbert being around to see the outcome of these efforts are remote. Elena Baltacha, by contrast, was able to sneak a narrow win, her 6-3, 2-6, 7-5 success against Angelique Kerber earning her a fourth victory at Wimbledon in six attempts. She achieved it with good fortune but, if anyone deserves that, it is the Briton, whose chances of becoming a top-level player have been destroyed by an appalling list of illnesses and injuries. There was no possible response to the Baltacha drive which bounced three times on the net and dropped over in the third game of the final set. Baltacha put her hand over her mouth but it was roundly cheered and, remarkably, the same thing happened in the penultimate game. Baltacha blew a kiss to the crowd as they cheered. Melanie South, the British No3, lost in three sets to the 28th seed, Alona Bondarenko of the Ukraine. South, 20, conceded the first set 3-6 but won the second set tie-break 7-1 only to lose the final set 6-4. 