Ben Child 
 So far, in the slowly percolating side-drama that is the buildup to Skyfall, the 23rd 007 adventure and the first from director Sam Mendes, it's been all about Daniel Craig's James Bond. We had trunky Bond, sitting on the edge of a gleaming swimming pool and reminding us that he's still got deltoids to die for in the first behind-the-scenes shot of the new movie; then beardy Bond, superimposed on a background that looked like something out of Blade Runner, staring into the distance with Walther PPK raised and ready. Clearly the team at Eon productions have decided it's about time to focus on the man who is actually driving this thing. Mendes' debut video blog features only fleeting glimpses of 007 and is all about the man behind the cameras. Is this really going to be an auteurish take on Ian Fleming's suave super-sleuth, or will the Oscar-winning director wind up toeing the Eon party line as so many others have done before him? Perhaps – just perhaps – this v-log (sorry) is designed to convince doubters that he's all set to accomplish both. After the usual gumpf about being a fan of Bond since he was a toddler (OK, nine) and loving Martin Campbell's Casino Royale reboot, we get this line: "It struck me that it is still possible to make a big, glamourous, fabulous, escapist movie and still say something about the world we're living in." Will 007 find himself trapped in a loveless suburban marriage, American Beauty style, or twiddling his thumbs on the secret service sidelines as Mendes plumps for the Jarhead approach? Probably not, but the Bond bigwigs are certainly flagging up the British film-maker's potential to add a touch of human drama to the 007 mix. Do you believe them? The first teaser for the next James Bond film didn't give much away. Now we know more ... Skyfall, the 23rd James Bond film, sees 007 return from the wilderness after an attack on MI6 leaves the agency vulnerable Stuart Heritage: The new Bond film promo turns out to be a barrage of explosions, dubstep and associative word games. Still, it has to be better than Quantum of Solace 