Nicholas Wright 
 God knows how many films I've seen in my life (about one a day is my average), but I've seldom witnessed such a receptive audience as I did for The Artist the other week. Memories of all the silent films I watched during my childhood came swinging back to me; looking around, the rest of the cinema seemed to bask in a similarly rapt and innocent haze of pleasure. When it was over, they clapped as they would at the end of an exceptionally good play. Of all the many strengths of Michel Hazanavicius's film, the absence of words is the greatest. No words means no reliance on a form of communication that isn't, in fact, anything like as effective as we think. The language of gesture often says more – and it's always more passionate. It's obvious but easy to forget, even though we wonder every day why our exchanges by text and email seem so tinny and thin, why they fail to convey friendship, love or just plain amiability as warmly as we would like. Think of the reckless physicality with which the truly great movie stars put their stories across: Cary Grant, interrupting a polite compliment with a backflip in 1938's Holiday, just for emphasis. Or Greta Garbo's backbone, coiled like a spring as she swoops down to suck the breath from her lover's mouth as though it were honey. Or John Wayne's menacing waddle: is he an American hero or a crusty old curmudgeon? He's not letting on, and that's the point. Think of the mockingly girlish delicacy of Brando, or Monroe as she sashays down the side of the train in Some Like It Hot. Modern screen acting can seem very cerebral by comparison, and also rather corporate, as if having anything too interesting going on might upset the customers. While researching my new play Travelling Light, about an eastern European immigrant who becomes a major player in Hollywood's golden age, I came across the autobiography of Cecil Hepworth, one of the founders of the British film industry. Hepworth recalled, at the age of 21, dashing up to the top-floor London workshop of the inventor Robert W Paul, the man who pioneered the projection of moving pictures on to screens in Britain. He wanted to sell the great man his newly invented electric lamp, and found himself clambering over a dozen or more Polish and Armenian Jews asleep on the stairs. These were travelling showmen, waiting for Paul's latest projectors to be delivered, so they could go back home and dazzle the peasants of the wide-flung shtetls, the Jewish communities of eastern Europe, with the wonders of cinema. I realised how deeply cinema had taken root in Yiddish popular culture before the first world war. And then how profoundly Yiddish culture had influenced American film, as the Hollywood movie moguls, almost all of them Jewish immigrants, transformed the plays, vaudeville acts, folk tales and sentimental musical comedies they remembered from the old country into an American art form. They then presented it, in true democratic fashion, coast to coast, in palatial theatres glowing with chandeliers and marble staircases, to rich and poor alike for a mere 25 cents admission. What were the stories these moguls told? Girl meets boy, they lose each other, they get back together. Corny? Sure, but that's how it is in peasant life and, come to think of it, that's how it is everywhere else. What else? A mixed-up young man clashes with his traditionally minded parents: a perennial theme in Jewish literature, as the cultural gap between city and shtetl grew wider. Any movie examples? Too many to count. And a popular tale from 19th-century Yiddish pulp fiction: a shtetl plagued by crooks and assassins is rescued by a man of exceptional courage who draws his gun and drives the baddies away. That's right: High Noon is a Jewish movie. The first talking film was Al Jolson's 1927 hit The Jazz Singer, paradoxically not really a talkie at all, but a glorious silent-and-talkie piece of Yiddish schmaltz: after that, silent movies were dead. But my cinema-buff uncle Geoff, a stalwart of the Cape Town Film Society, went on showing them to my family throughout my childhood. Not all of them were as good as they were cracked up to be. The fantasies of Georges Méliès I found faintly malodorous: all those tacky moonbound trains and weird homunculi – and weren't the illusions merely stop-go camerawork? Even I could work that out, and I was only six. Chaplin was fine as long as he was funny; when he simpered, I blushed and looked away. Buster Keaton's cool and classical style was a lot more like it. Fritz Lang's Metropolis, even in a tattered old print, was astonishing, and FW Murnau's Sunrise hypnotic in its beauty. I remember my mother's voice ringing through the darkness: "Should Nicky really be watching this?" I'm glad I did. • Travelling Light, a new play by Nicholas Wright, opens on 18 January at the National Theatre, London SE1, nationaltheatre.org.uk. There will be a live cinema broadcast on 9 February 