Conservative MP says tweet is second death threat she has had in a week and ‘tolerance and free speech must prevail’ 
Haroon Siddique 
 Police are investigating a tweet calling for someone to “Jo Cox” the Conservative MP Anna Soubry. The murder of the Labour MP Cox by an extreme rightwing terrorist raised concerns about parliamentarians’ security and the level of abuse they have directed at them.  On Friday morning a Twitter user by the name of Michael posted: “Someone jo cox Anna sourby please [sic].” Soubry, the MP for Broxtowe in Nottinghamshire, was a remain supporter in the EU referendum, like Cox.  She replied: “Take it that wasn’t a spelling mistake. You’re a sad cowardly troll.” The account has since been deleted but Soubry later posted a screenshot of the offending tweet, with the comment: “This is what has happened to our politics. Tolerance & free speech must prevail.” This is what has happened to our politics. Tolerance & free speech must prevail pic.twitter.com/i9Jk0CqkQi She told BBC Nottinghamshire that she was “very disturbed” by the tweet and confirmed that she had reported it to Nottinghamshire police as well as the parliamentary authorities.  She said the message was the second of two death threats she had received in a week. “Somebody had rung the office on Wednesday and made a number of threats to harm me in the same way that Jo Cox was harmed … so we reported that,” she said. Soubry added: “It’s almost as if Jo was never murdered. “It’s surreal actually, that that terrible and dreadful event has almost been erased and we have gone back to the language, we have gone back to the way of doing politics which we all promised we wouldn’t after Jo was murdered. “The abuse on Twitter has gone back up again from almost all sides – from both the left and the extreme right – and it all needs to stop.” There was an outpouring of support from across the political divide. The Westminster SNP leader Angus Robertson was among those who urged the police to investigate.  Solidarity and thoughts with @Anna_Soubry. Hope the @metpoliceuk take swift action. https://t.co/rt3S8IvTe5 Sympathy and support to @Anna_Soubry Threats and hate speech have no place in our politics. https://t.co/HGz7SDIqTF Thomas Mair was last week sentenced to prison for the rest of his life for the murder of Cox. He repeatedly shot and stabbed her in an attack during the EU referendum campaign in June. While attacking her he said: “This is for Britain,” “Keep Britain independent,” and “Britain first,” the court heard. A spokesman for Nottinghamshire police said: “We have received reports of threats made to an individual.  “Nottinghamshire police takes reports of this nature very seriously and an investigation is under way.” 