 The current wave of interest in virtual reality technology may be fuelled by games, but Vice News is hoping that VR can play a role in news broadcasting too. The online broadcaster has teamed up with digital artist Chris Milk and filmmaker Spike Jonze for a “virtual reality news broadcast” filmed at December’s Millions March protest rally in New York. Initially delivered via Milk’s own VRSE app for iPhone and Android smartphones, the Vice News VR: Millions March film was shot using a 360-degree camera system that followed Vice News correspondent Alice Speri through the march, which came after the death of Eric Garner while he was being arrested by police. Viewers can watch the film on their smartphones, including slotting the devices in to Google Cardboard virtual reality headsets for a fuller VR experience. Vice News says that the film will eventually be available for other headsets too – for example, the Facebook-owned Oculus Rift. Gimmick? Not according to Jonze, who is creative director at Vice News’ parent company alongside his cinema projects. “Chris and I have been talking a lot about the possibilities and future of VR filmmaking over the last year,” said Jonze as the app went live. “One of the areas we are excited about is documentary and news, to create the experience of being there in the middle of events that are happening.” Milk is no stranger to the technology, having shot a concert by musician Beck and released it as a VR film – Hello, Again – for Oculus Rift. He’s planning to work with Vice News on more “VR journalism” projects, with Vice having invested in his company VRSE.farm. “If you combine their tenacity with the immersive power of virtual reality, what you get is an intense connection between audience and story,” said Milk. “My hope is that VR is the tool we need to stir more compassion for one another. I think VR holds the potential to fundamentally change journalism. • Toyota Oculus Rift app uses VR to explain distracted driving • Disabled boy learns to play piano with his eyes using VR headset • Paul McCartney launches free virtual-reality concert app 