Letters 
 As general secretaries of unions that have nominated Jeremy Corbyn to remain as leader of the Labour party, we are writing to explain why the millions of members in our unions and the millions of workers beyond should vote for Jeremy. We have all known him for many years. He has supported us, stood on our picket lines, celebrated our successes, and campaigned alongside us for trade union rights. Jeremy’s pledge is to rebuild and transform Britain so that no one and no community is left behind. His commitment to introducing sectoral collective bargaining, and mandatory collective bargaining for companies with more than 250 employees would transform and rebalance industrial relations to make them fit for the 21st century. For more than three decades Jeremy’s track record and socialist credentials make him the choice for leader of the Labour party. We need a Labour government committed to workers’ rights, social justice, government investment in our manufacturing sector and public sector and good quality jobs. Jeremy campaigns for all of these and is the person to lead the Labour party into government to make them a reality. He is the only choice to get the job done.Mick Whelan General secretary, Aslef Ronnie Draper General secretary, BFAWU Dave Ward General secretary, CWU Matt Wrack General secretary, FBU Manuel Cortes General secretary, TSSA Brian Rye Acting general secretary, Ucatt Len McCluskey General secretary, Unite  • The reaction from diehard Corbyn fans to Kezia Dugdale’s public declaration in favour of Owen Smith betrays the depth of their ignorance of the shifting political landscape north of the border and the possible implications for Labour at UK level (Scottish Labour leader backs Owen Smith against Jeremy Corbyn, , 22 August). To illustrate the point, let’s look at who has chiefly profited from Scottish Labour’s ongoing demise, with reference to the most recent Scottish parliamentary elections. It wasn’t Rise, the new leftist party claiming to represent Old Labour values. It wasn’t Solidarity, the socialist Trotskyist alternative. And it wasn’t the old school Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition. In theory, all of them should have gained from the burning desire of ordinary voters supposedly thirsting for a leftwing socialist alternative, but shock horror it was the centre-leaning Tories who came second to the SNP. Even taking into account the split between those favouring independence and those favouring the status quo, that’s a funny way for disillusioned Labour voters to punish Scottish Labour under Dugdale for not being leftwing enough (though her manifesto was distinctly leftist). But I suspect this is perhaps too nuanced a reading for people who have already made up their minds and condemn anyone who doesn’t agree with them 100% as a traitor. Colin MontgomeryEdinburgh • As ballot papers are sent out to the 640,000 people entitled to vote in the Labour leadership contest, it is critical to debunk some outstanding myths that have grown over recent months. For instance, that Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign will mobilise those who over recent years have ceased to vote for Labour and therefore will re-engage with the so called “core vote”. Out of the hundred constituencies with the lowest turnout in the last two general elections, 92 are already held by Labour. The point being that, critical as mobilisation is, the issue of how to win a general election is much more complex than the question of engaging those who currently fail to vote at all. The second key issue is the notion that it is Jeremy Corbyn and Momentum who are creating new ideas and putting forward radical policies that do not exist in other parts of the Labour family. For instance, Zoe Williams (Opinion, 15 August) takes to task those she dismisses as Blairites who failed to encapsulate a radical agenda of change. In her words “any thought deemed to be redistributive found broad acceptability wrapped in a nappy. Hence Sure Start, the child trust fund and child poverty target.” As the person (along with Tessa Jowell, and supported by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown) responsible for the introduction of Sure Start, the child trust fund and giving substantial support to the successful child anti-poverty target, I take deep offence at the Corbynistas and Momentum parading themselves as offering new thought and being more radical and progressive than those of us who held office. I have no idea whether the shadow secretary of state for education, Angela Rayner, understands what is meant by a national education service because I have not yet ever had the privilege of meeting her. What I do know is that it was a Labour government, not a Labour opposition, that transformed the life chances of children in the constituency I was proud to represent, and that it was Sure Start and would have been the child trust fund that gave the prospect of real liberation from dependency on others, and the ability to “control” their own lives. Posturing is not the same thing as winning popular support.David BlunkettLabour, House of Lords • With reference to your report “Labour rivals vow to ensure a woman has place at the top” (22 August), female Labour MPs were rightly disappointed that the latest opportunity of having a woman as leader of the Labour party came to nothing (as yet). However, it is incorrect to suggest that this chance was missed “when [Owen] Smith knocked Angela Eagle out of the competition”. She was not “knocked out”; she chose to withdraw from the contest in the interests of party unity and in doing so showed a high degree of statesmanship and real concern for the party – but precious little acknowledgement she received for it. Margaret QuinnLiverpool • Steve Richards considers that local government was a “powerless desert” in the 1980s in contrast to the current trend to move powers from the centre (Don’t despair – devolution offers Labour a chance, 22 August). He has forgotten the role of local education authorities in those days, often a force for innovation and an important counter balance to central government and special interests. He is sadly not alone in failing to propose the return of this function.John BaileySt Albans • Time and time again in the media we hear that Jeremy Corbyn is a poor leader. In British politics since time immemorial, party leaders have adopted an autocratic and dictatorial style, laying down policy and instructions from the top, and it appears that all the PLP 80 including Heidi Alexander (Corbyn’s leadership shoddy, says MP, 20 August), take it as a given. Corbyn’s leadership style is consensual; policy is formed by debate and discussion. Corbyn promises a major revolution in leadership style, which this country so desperately needs: the PLP 80 need to grasp this simple and blindingly obvious notion, and, should Corbyn win the leadership election, work alongside him on a consensual platform. Humankind has steadily and progressively ditched autocrats and dictators – let’s do it in British politics.Steve FlintSeaton, Devon • Before I fill in my Labour party ballot paper, I would like to know the candidates’ proposals as to how (if elected) they will seek to bring about peace and reconciliation within the party .Harry Barnes Dronfield, Derbyshire  • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@ 