Judith Mackrell 
 Rambert’s key mission has always been to support British choreography, and if there have been a couple of duds among its recent commissions, Shobana Jeyasingh’s new piece (her first for the company) isn’t one of them. Terra Incognita is not only an asset to the repertory, it’s one of her own best works. It’s set to a score by Gabriel Prokofiev, and the intimacy between dance and music is key. Jeyasingh’s theme is mapping unknown terrain, and as her 10 dancers traverse the stage, the accompanying sounds of high strings and chugging beats and the eerie overlay of rattles and whistles are all strikingly evocative of alien spaces and human determination. Equally vivid is the movement. As one group of dancers tracks a slow, wary pattern between the crouching bodies of the others, or one woman clambers over the shoulders of five men, small, repeated motifs accumulate a kind of narrative. Limbs are stiffly extended like defence weapons; deep plies sink towards the ground like instruments of divination, and all the while the shifting Perspex panels of Jean-Marc Puissant’s set keep altering the landscape of the stage, herding the dancers into enclosed spaces or opening up new horizons. The sharp geometries and tightly coiled energy of Jeyasingh’s style sit well on Rambert’s superb dancers, and if Terra Incognita feels a tad over-extended, it’s principally due to the length of the preceding works.  Mark Baldwin’s The Strange Charm of Mother Nature is inspired by the mysteries of particle physics, and in essence it’s a joyously entertaining piece. During the opening section, set to Stravinsky’s Dumbarton Oaks, 13 dancers fizz across the stage in speedy, zig-zagging starbursts of movement, the choreography only slowing down when two of them collide to form a rapt duet. Yet while the work’s following sections are underpinned by different physics (quarks and gamma rays) and have very different music (Bach and Cheryl Frances-Hoad), Baldwin’s choreography fails to develop with equal force. The work would surely have had a far more focused energy and argument if it had been restricted to a single score. And the same feels true for Ashley Page’s Subterrain. Revived from last year, its richly detailed choreography remains impressive. But musically the work is another club sandwich, and although the mix of Mark-Antony Turnage and Aphex Twin helps drive the emotional and choreographic logic of the piece, it also makes for an overlong and, eventually, enervating structure.  • Until 22 November. Buy tickets from theguardianboxoffice.com. Venue: Sadler’s Wells. Then touring. 