 A group claiming to be part of the international hacking network Anonymous has taken over Victoria’s Human Rights Commission website with a nonsensical message about its social network AnonPlus. Instead of the commission’s website and its pages, a message from AnonPlus appears on the screen which says the group is “non-criminal”. It is unclear why the commission’s website was targeted. “Every person who has the goodwill to act is welcome,” the message, which does not make grammatical sense, says. “AnonPlus spreads ideas without censorship, creates spaces to spread directly through mass defacement, publish news that the media filtered and managed for the consumption of who controls, we do that to restore dignity to the function of the media: media should be free, without censorship and must limit itself to ‘show what’s happening’ and don’t ‘say to us what’s wrong and what’s right’. The message continues: “AnonPlus puts offline sites that actively contribute to the control of the masses from the corrupt, that by manipulating information and opinions create false realities: this is censorship! “AnonPlus not act for personal or political causes, has no leaders, moves to the interests of the people and we will fight until the leadership and the powership will lead into the hand of people: unique owner of the free world.” At the end of the message, the group writes that no data was stolen or deleted.  “Only home page was chanced,” the message continues. “We are not criminal we are AnonPlus.”  There is a link to the group’s Twitter account which was last active about two weeks ago. The group has not responded to requests from Guardian Australia for comment. On Twitter the commission said it was working to fix the issue. “Apologies in the meantime for any inconvenience caused,” the tweet said. A media spokeswoman told Guardian Australia the commission was aware of the breach and was working to rectify the issue.  “The reason behind today’s activity is unknown,” she said. “No demands have been made to the commission. We would like to make clear that no privacy breach has occurred as personal data is not held on this site.” 