 These are strange times at Chelsea, where Guus Hiddink is not afraid to confront reality and admit that the wobbling champions, languishing six points above the bottom three after Wednesday’s sloppy draw with West Bromwich Albion, are in a relegation battle. José Mourinho has gone but the team’s structural flaws did not disappear with him. The Chelsea of old would not have lost the lead once against West Brom at home, never mind twice. At least the transfer window is open now, presenting them with an easy opportunity to make all their problems go away. With Diego Costa capable of starting a fight in an empty room, Loïc Rémy susceptible to niggles and strains, and mentions of Radamel Falcao drawing nothing more than sympathetic sighs about a player who once terrorised defenders across Europe, Chelsea could do with another striker. They were linked with Alex Pato – Corinthians would gladly take £10m for the Brazilian forward – on Friday. Hiddink, however, has other ideas. Pato’s injury record makes him look like a Falcao in waiting. Costa has four goals in his past five matches, despite continuing to clash with referees and opponents, and Rémy has trained strongly this week. “You must be rather desperate to bring in players in January,” Hiddink said, before namechecking two young players, Bertrand Traoré and Christian Atsu, the Ghana winger who is back at Stamford Bridge after his loan spell at Bournemouth ended early, as potential attacking options. The use of young players is a subject of feverish debate at Chelsea, who have won the FA Youth Cup in three of the past four seasons, and reached the final in 2013 but lost to Norwich City. Opportunities are scarce. Plenty of them are out on loan and the one who was allowed to get away without much of a fight is Romelu Lukaku, who will be desperate to show Chelsea what they are missing when Everton visit Stamford Bridge on Saturday afternoon. Lukaku joined Everton on loan in 2013 and moved to Goodison Park for £28m a year later, a decision that felt questionable at the time and looks even less clever now the 22-year-old has scored 55 goals in 107 appearances for Roberto Martínez’s side. Mourinho has said Lukaku wanted to leave but it would have been beneficial to make him feel wanted. “Lukaku developed himself, especially last year,” Hiddink said. “He is a very dangerous player. It is difficult to make that judgment, how he performed when he was here, and I don’t know the reason why he was sold, but it’s up to the management, you have to ask them, why they would do so.” Hiddink, who hopes that Eden Hazard will return from his groin injury in time for next Sunday’s trip to Arsenal, has given opportunities to Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Kenedy. Loftus-Cheek scored in the FA Cup win over Scunthorpe United last week and Kenedy, a Brazilian winger, pepped Chelsea’s attack after replacing Pedro at half-time against West Brom, forcing Gareth McAuley into scoring an own-goal. Mourinho was wary of playing youngsters, questioning whether they could cope with the pressure of elite competition. Yet despite suggesting that Loftus-Cheek would be ready for the first team this season, the 19-year-old’s only league start ended with Mourinho substituting him at half-time in the win over Aston Villa in October. “In principle I’m in favour to bring in young players,” Hiddink said. “They must have a certain level. Recently we brought in Loftus-Cheek and Kenedy. If the circumstances allow, that’s what we will do. I’d prefer to do that in the winter period than bringing in certain names. If you have this academy, the facilities and the training programme, one day it must produce. If not, it is not worth having an academy.” Hiddink was asked what would stop him from using young players. “Not much,” he said. “But I don’t want the team to get unstable when the more experienced players perform. Every now and then we will give one a rest but I don’t want to make the first team a birdcage where everyone can fly in and out easily. It needs to be stable. Young players feel the help of the more experienced players.” And they need time to mature. Not that it has taken long for Lukaku to become one of the best strikers in the Premier League since leaving Chelsea, who must now learn from that mistake. 