Shortly after Sunday night’s US presidential debate, Roger Waters floated out his famous giant inflatable pig in Indio, California, with a special election-year message: “Ignorant, lying, racist, sexist PIG – Fuck Trump and his wall.” The finale of Desert Trip, festival behemoth Goldenvoice’s classic-rock spin on its cash cow Coachella, brought its audience back to reality with this overt, aggressive political message. On Friday, a few hours before the first of three baby-boomer bucket-list double headers – Bob Dylan and the Rolling Stones, Neil Young and Paul McCartney, the Who and Roger Waters – a 2005 video recording leaked of Donald Trump’s lewd conversation with a TV host and left the world speechless.  By Sunday night, the audience were preparing to return to the national nightmare via the second debate, but for a trio of blissful days, it was an opportunity to travel back to simpler, pre-Reagan years. Wealthy and abashed GOP-ers gulped $29 glasses of Silver Oak cabernet and sidled up next to self-righteous silver-haired Democrat hippies to ask sheepishly for a toke off their joints, and we all, CEOs and chakra readers, dads and daughters, young and old, disappeared into the music. When golden gods of rock are your escorts, of course, that escape comes at a price: tickets alone already generated a cool $160m from the estimated 75,000 attendees. A general admission weekend pass to the fest cost $399, but to stand in line for overpriced wine with Leonardo DiCaprio or Tommy Lee, both of whom were spotted at the festival, you had to pony up $1,599 for tickets in the pit. And if comfort trumped star sightings (and for most of the graying folks dressed in vacation-casual attire, I’m guessing it did), you could nab a reserved, padded seat for somewhere in between. For the most part, the music was worth its eye-widening price tag. At 73, Mick Jagger strutted down the catwalk better than Cara Delevingne, who was watching the Rolling Stones’ ecstatic set of nonstop hits. Dangling a cigarette from one hand and grinning crookedly, Keith Richards played with obvious joy. Neil Young delivered the best line of the festival (“Come back tomorrow night – Roger’s gonna build a wall and make Mexico great again”) and ripped into a 20-plus-minute rendition of Down by the River. Paul McCartney stayed on stage for almost three hours, the Who roared what seemed to be the loudest set of the festival and Waters saved the whole thing from being stuck in the past by using the stage as a political platform. Dylan elicited some grumbles by not saying a word to the audience or allowing his face to be shown on the big screens, but a fan plugging up his phone to a charging station shrugged and said he’d been the same way when he saw him play in 1978. When news of Desert Trip’s two-show-per-night lineup and cushy seating options broke in mid-April, it coincided with Coachella, the sweaty, frantic festival that squeezes in nearly 60 shows and 100,000 partiers per day. Desert Trip quickly and sneeringly was dubbed “Oldchella” – a name bolstered by the sofa areas and expensive jackfruit vegan nachos on display this weekend.  The grounds opened early in the afternoon, but shows didn’t start until the sun had begun to set, which solved two problems: burning and melting under a blistering sun, and dressing for the desert’s wild temperature swing from daytime sweltering to evening frigid. Speaking of clothing, Coachella has morphed into as much of a fashion show as a music festival, with girls draping themselves in their Stevie Nicks finest and dying to be snapped for a best-dressed blog slideshow. Not at Oldchella, however. There were still girls in rainbow shortalls and fringed shirts, and guys in artfully ripped jeans and flannel shirts, but most people were dressed for ease of movement or, charmingly and dorkily, in the band souvenir shirts they’d already purchased. Because here’s the thing: the people who came to Oldchella to be cool were far outnumbered by the people who came to see the bands they loved, maybe for the last time ever.    