From disclosing how many foreign workers firms employ to installing consumers as boardroom directors, the Tory plans have seen a mixed response 
Jill Treanor 
 Conservative governments usually enjoy a close relationship with big business – but a string of proposals outlined by Theresa May’s new government look likely to put her on a collision course with leaders of small and major companies alike. May has criticised the “irrational, healthy and growing gap” between what companies pay their workers and their bosses. Some business groups back that – saying the widening gap is damaging the reputation of business. But some top bosses will resent interference. Advertising CEO Sir Martin Sorrell, who earned £70m last year, has repeatedly defended his pay. Currently shareholders have a binding vote on general pay policies every three years, but only an advisory vote on actual annual payouts. May has talked about making that a binding vote. The Confederation of British Industry is likely to oppose any such change, because the current system is “a good balance”. May’s speech to the Conservative party on Wednesday repeated her calls for workers and consumers to be installed as boardroom directors. The idea has been welcomed by unions but employers are less keen. The Institute of Directors said such a move should not be compulsory while fund manager Legal & General has suggested annual meetings between staff representatives and boardroom bosses as an alternative. Home secretary Amber Rudd’s call for companies to reveal the nationality of their workers has not gone down well in business. Adam Marshall, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said having a global workforce should not be seen as a “badge of shame”. The Federation of Small Businesses said employers would be turned into “immigration offices”. May said she wanted to give UK firms “maximum freedom to trade with and operate within the single market” but also wanted control over immigration. City employers say a “hard Brexit” – without EU access – could put up to 35,000 jobs at risk as well as up to £5bn of annual tax revenue according to consultants Oliver Wyman. 