There are currently more phone-holding monopods on the market than you can shake a stick at. But not all are created equally, so we put them to the test 
 Selfie sticks are either the epitome of what is wrong with society or the best thing since camera phones, depending on your point of view. But as you start to use them, you realise that they aren’t all created equally, even if many of them are produced in the same factory in China. So which one is the best selfie stick and worth spending money on, if you’ve decided that your arm isn’t long enough and you must get better view of your face? I set about testing all the selfie sticks that looked good from various brands around the world. Testing involved putting a variety of smartphones including an iPhone 5S, iPhone 6 and a Nexus 6P into the phone holder, fully extending the pole and then proceeding to take some self-indulgent shots, including belfies. I tested the various mechanisms, how much the poles bent and how well the holder kept hold of the phone and other bits and pieces associated with the functioning of the pole, including the remote shutter button if there was one. The quality difference is quite remarkable. Some poles are low-grade, feel cheap and don’t work very well. Others are sturdy and feature-rich, while price is not a great determinator. Some poles are better suited to more active selfie-takers, others are best suited to being carried around for tourist-level shots. Here are some of the best and worst sticks. Price: £10The Anker selfie stick is a simple extending metal pole in a soft-touch ergonomic grip with a hand strap in the bottom. It extends smoothly, holding in position with friction. At maximum extension it’s relatively solid without too much play or wobble. The phone mount is one of the best available, with a secure and reassuring grip between rubber pads, held at an angle by a solid-feeling plastic wing nut. The Nexus 6P, a 5.7in phablet easily fit s within it. The handle has a Bluetooth shutter release that works by simulating the down volume button. The button lights up, pairing was easy, the shutter was immediate and it lasted long enough so I didn’t need to worry about charging it (which is simple using microUSB). Specifications Verdict: ***** Light, compact, solid with good phone hold, excellent remote shutter release and comfortable grip. Price: £30 The DiCAPac selfie stick combines a basic pole with some more advanced action-photography features. The pole has a foam grip, aluminium shaft and a twist-to-lock action which holds the phone securely at the desired length. The pole is light and sturdy, with little play when fully extended. The stick comes with two mounts for the phone. One is a simple clamp that just about stretches to fit the Nexus 6P and the other a locking mechanism and buoyancy aid for a waterproof case into which you put your phone. The normal phone mount isn’t as well padded as others, but will unscrew from the pole to reveal a standard 1/4in screw mount for cameras. A small, removable Bluetooth shutter remote comes with a waterproof case to attach it to the pole and works well. It requires a coin-cell battery. Photos through the waterproof phone case in open air were OK, but with a little distortion because of the case. The pole will float so you won’t lose your waterproof phone or camera in the sea. Specifications Verdict: Light, waterproof and adaptable, but not as compact or cheap as rivals and comes with a weak phone clamp. Price: £15The Harrods selfie stick, aka the Red5 mTech Pocket Selfie Stick, is a compact pole with a rubberised grip and cheap-feeling plastic handle. The metal pole is very stiff to both extend and retract, making it hard to put away. A child would struggle, but the sliding mechanism might ease over time. The pole also bends quite a lot with the phone in the mount at maximum extension. The phone mount is very solid, but fitting the Nexus 6P into it was a squeeze. The wing nut holding the mount in place at an angle feels cheap and there was significant play even when done up as tight as possible by hand. The stick has a remote shutter button that uses the headphone port of the phone to simulate the down-volume press. That means no charging but a cable must be plugged into the phone. When folded down the cable is then lose. Specifications Vedict: * Very stiff, feels cheap but costs more than simple rivals, cable is loose when compact and mount is small and not stable. Price: £9A simple Bluetooth selfie stick that appears to have come out of the same factory as the Anker. It’s got a cylindrical soft-touch grip and metallic end plate with handstrap and microUSB port. It smoothly extends to maximum with only slightly more play than the Anker. The phone mount is identical to the Anker and is great, securely holding the phone between two rubber pads. The handle has a Bluetooth shutter release, with an activity light in the button and on the bottom plate of the handle, making it easier to see what’s happening. Specifications Verdict: **** Light, compact, great phone holder, excellent remote shutter release, but not quite as comfortable to hold. Price: £10A compact pole with a sticky, sort of dense plastic foam handle and poor build quality: I managed to pull the rubber top off the handle when trying to extend it, exposing the manual shutter button. But the metal extension pole is decent with a little play when fully deployed. The phone mount is relatively good, but only just about fitted the Nexus 6P, holding it in place with rubber pads. The back of the mount has a convex mirror, which allows you to line up shots when using the rear camera rather than the front-facing selfie camera. Pictures are normally much better using the main rear camera. The manual shutter release works via the headphones port. The cable is slots into a small hole when folded down. I’m not confident it will be all that reliable, but the box says the stick has a two-year warranty. Specifications Verdict: * Good idea with the mirror, but the simple stick is let down by poor build quality. Price: €15 (£11)The best camera is the one you have with you all the time, aka your smartphone. So is the best selfie stick the one you always have on your phone? Popsicase is an iPhone case with a stick that slides out of the back. It’s not a selfie stick per-se, but works just like one with a small extension of your arm allowing you to get better shots. It holds the phone firmly, feels sturdy enough but I wouldn’t recommend widely waving it around. There’s no remote shutter, but you can probably still reach the shutter button with your thumb. Specifications Verdict: *** Lollipop stick in the back which makes it easier to hold your phone, but gives barely any extension. Price: $100 (£69) The PowerGrip H20 is the daddy of selfie sticks. This thing has more options and accessories than you can shake a stick at, and is priced accordingly. The main body is a long, chunky rubberised grip that contains a 6,700mAh rechargeable battery with two USB ports for powering any number of things. The door to the USB ports is waterproof and you can get doors with integrated cables and connectors for devices such as GoPros and the camera’s waterproof case. The idea is that it’ll power a GoPro for 12 hours filming or six full battery charges. There’s also a 500 lumen waterproof LED light available that really is quite bright if using to take a picture of your face. The extension pole folds in two and screws together to produce a full extension of 33in, a shorter one of 22in or just the handle as a camera grip. The pole also can also bend, which means it’s easier to get it and your arm out of the photo. It’s a little bit fiddly to put together and isn’t compact by any stretch of the imagination. The folding phone mount is compact but holds the phone in a sturdy, rubber-padded grip that fits the Nexus 6P with a little bit of room. It’s worth noting that when put together and only partially extended it looks a little like a small rifle, so worth being cautious where you open it. Specifications Verdict: **** A beast of a pole that is more capable than any other and great for those wanting to shoot underwater or in need of extra power. Price: £13 A relatively long pole by selfie-stick standards, the XShot Deluxe Selfie kit has a silicone rubber handle and comes in several colours. The pole is one of the best available smoothly extending and snapping into place with a reassuring click. It smells pretty bad, however, a chemical odour akin to burnt plastic. The top of the pole has a standard 1/4in screw mount for a camera onto which the phone mount screws. The phone holder is one of the largest available, easily taking the Nexus 6P between rubber pads and a foam back. The pole comes with a detachable Bluetooth shutter remote powered by a coin-cell battery with two buttons one labeled for Android and the other for iOS. The iOS button worked with the Nexus 6P but the Android button did not. Specifications Verdict: **** The pole is light and solid when extended, the remote works well, but it doesn’t fold down as compact as rivals and smells. Price: £30 If jumping off buildings is more your kind of thing, the XShot Sport is sturdy enough to survive. The thick rubberised handle and long locking aluminium pole feel like they could take a beating. In fact, it looks a bit like a weapon so careful where you break it out. The top of the pole has a screw mount for attaching various accessories including a GoPro directly to the pole. It comes with a standard 1/4in screw and the XShot phone holder that’s the same as the Deluxe Selfie Kit above. There’s no remote, it’s not very compact, but the pole is waterproof, has a screw mount in the bottom of the handle, it lighter than you might expect and is really quite long when fully extended. Specifications Verdict: **** A decent action-camera selfie pole that will feels like it would survive a beating. 