Aditya Chakrabortty’s article (Britain’s bosses fat and lazy? For once, Liam Fox has a point, 13 September) echoes the findings of Martin Wiener who, in 1981, wrote English Culture and the Decline of the Industrial Spirit (1981). In essence, Wiener argues that the relative decline of the UK economy over the previous century was due, in part, to the cultural values of British elites. In particular, he saw that industrial and business leaders were more concerned with aping the values of the old agrarian aristocracy. For them, success involved the acquisition of a thousand acres of land and a mansion, preferably in the Cotswolds. This they valued more than the growth of their firms by further injections of available capital. Whatever the strength of Wiener’s analysis, it greatly impressed Keith Joseph who was then secretary of state for industry in Thatcher’s first cabinet. He held the view that the activities of business and industrial leaders had a more corrosive impact on the UK economy than the actions of union leaders. He recommended that all cabinet ministers should read Wiener’s book and learn the lessons. A feature of Wiener’s analysis was that although the economy was still large when measured by GDP, there was a significant decline in productivity when measured by GDP per capita. The end of the Thatcher period saw a significant decline in manufacturing output as a proportion of GDP. This is still the position today, even though during the referendum campaign Fox and other Brexit leaders proudly proclaimed the strength of the economy, the fifth largest in the world – a strength that they claimed will enable us to face the rigours and uncertainties of the global market. He either did not know, or did not wish to inform the electorate, that our economy measured by GDP per capita is placed 25th in the IMF ranking of world economies. This reflects low levels of productivity, a consequence of under-investment in the economy. Wiener’s cultural argument is demonstrated fully in the recent case of Philip Green, who took hundreds of millions out of BHS for his private consumption. So why is Liam Fox now so concerned about the performance of industrial and business leaders when weeks ago he was lauding the strength of the UK economy? Is it because he now recognises our vulnerability as an isolated economy in the global marketplace and that if things go badly wrong for the economy then who is to take the blame? Fox can hardly blame the large number of workers who voted to leave. A far more acceptable scapegoat will be the fat and lazy business elite who could not be bothered to export and who anyway had voted to remain in the EU.Gerald CrawleySt Briavels, Gloucestershire • Aditya Chakrabortty’s criticism of Liam Fox’s remarks on British bosses being fat and lazy is fine as far as it goes. But he doesn’t diagnose the underlying structural cause. The British economy has long been dominated by financial markets and banks. The preeminence of London as an international financial centre has increasingly been seen in the era of globalisation, but especially since the big bang negotiated in 1983 and implemented in 1986, as the core of British economic success, punching above its weight in the world. However, as many analysts have shown – for example, Adair Turner in his groundbreaking book Between Debt and the Devil – the financial services industry is concerned not with supporting the productive economy but with “bidding up existing assets”. Productive investment has slumped dramatically over the years, with profits from the origination and trading of mortgages, derivatives and other pure debt instruments underpinning the lifestyles of economic elites and undermining those of workers. The global financial crisis has merely reinforced this trend. In this environment, as Mariana Mazzucato and others have argued, only a state-led industrial strategy, along with real economy-based financial regulation, can start to reorient the British economy towards regeneration and a more just distribution of rewards. Whether the May government’s stress on industrial strategy will mark a sea change is of course doubtful, given the support given by both Tory and Labour governments to the financial sector over the past 30 years.Philip G Cerny(Professor emeritus of politics and global affairs, University of Manchester and Rutgers University) York  • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@ • The second letter above was amended on 16 September 2016 to clarify a reference to “the big bang”. An earlier version referred to “the big bang of 1983” 