It was with a sense of déjà vu on Tuesday that Marks & Spencer staff and customers at the flagship Champs Elysées store learned it was to close – again. For 15 years, the British company has not known whether it is coming or going in Europe. Its French stores – including its biggest site on the world famous Parisian shopping street – were closed in 2001, then reopened in 2011. In subsequent years, further French stores opened. This week, however, M&S revealed it was closing a total of 100 stores worldwide, including seven in France, all in the Paris area, throwing more than 517 French workers out of jobs. In the drizzle outside the Champs Elysées store, most shoppers clutching M&S bags were tourists visiting Paris, many of them from China and Japan. “I like the clothes, but I often go to London and can buy them there,” said André, a 55-year-old French businessman. “It’s a pity, but I’d have been much more upset if they were closing all the food stores.” Christine, a regular M&S shopper, told journalists gathered outside the store: “It’s a shame. I come here often. It sells interesting things, good clothes at a reasonable price. As for the food: I find things you don’t get elsewhere.” The news came just three years after M&S said France was the cornerstone of the company’s international expansion and just a day after a leading French food website, Le Fooding, named M&S one of the best places in the French capital to find takeaway food. The shops that are closing are entirely owned by M&S. Five sell food and clothes, two are entirely food outlets. A further 11 stores, operated as franchises or joint ventures selling food, are to remain open. M&S insisted the closures would take place in the next 12 to 18 months after consultation with staff unions and representatives. A statement said the targeted stores had made £19m of losses in 2015-16.  Among M&S workers, now facing an uncertain future, there was anger and tears. Yasin Leguet, representative of the Seci-Unsa union at M&S in France, said staff at the Champs-Elysées store had feared it would close after the firm’s regional director’s fortnightly visits stopped and stock deliveries dwindled. A union representative at another condemned store at Levallois-Perret, east of Paris, told journalists: “It’s a complete shock. I’ve been working here since M&S returned in 2011. I don’t know how I’m going to tell my colleagues, when I feel so bad myself.” M&S’s remarkable volte-face comes just three years after John Herre, then international director at the retailer, came to France for the opening of a store in the 15th arrondissement and declared he was “really satisfied” with turnover at the Champs-Elysées store. “It’s the best of all our shops including those in the United Kingdom,” he said. “It’s very positive for us and give us confidence. It’s a priority market for us.” On Tuesday, it was clear the firm’s priorities lay elsewhere. 