A deal to keep Nissan making cars in the north-east will not add to the government’s liabilities, according to Philip Hammond, who said any costs would be kept within current spending limits. The chancellor said promises made to the Japanese firm avoided weighing down the Treasury with significant extra subsidies in the wake of the Brexit vote. However, in a letter to an influential all-party committee, Hammond refused to say how much the commitments made to Nissan would add to the public finances, saying only that any subsidies were “entirely within state aid and WTO rules”. Hammond said in a letter to Andrew Tyrie, the chair of the Treasury select committee, that “no new contingent liabilities have been created in respect of government reassurances provided to Nissan”.  Hammond added: “In any case, we expect any commitments incurring costs to be managed within existing overall departmental expenditure limit totals.” Tyrie wrote to the chancellor after the government refused to disclose to the Office for Budget Responsibility whether it made any financial promises to Nissan ahead of the autumn statement. The OBR’s economic outlook report, released alongside the mini-budget, revealed that the fiscal watchdog “asked specifically whether any contingent liabilities had been created in respect of assurances provided to Nissan” and that the Treasury declined to say.  In October Nissan said it will build the next Qashqai and X-Trail models in Sunderland amid rising speculation that it could ditch the UK following the country’s decision to quit the European Union. The move secured 7,000 jobs, but prompted concerns that a “sweetheart deal” between with the carmaker and the government had been struck. Hammond also reiterated business secretary Greg Clark’s statement in the Commons, in which he said four commitments were made to Nissan.  These included to continue providing grants to the automotive industry, to support the research and development and takeup of ultra-low emission vehicles and to “emphasise the common ground that exists between ourselves and EU member states to ensure that trade between us can be free and unencumbered”.  Asked by Tyrie if the latest letter from the chancellor gave him the assurance he needed on the impact of the deal, OBR chairman Rober Chote said: “I would be more reassured than not having had anything at all.” He said it showed that the government expects the impact to be limited, though the Treasury’s statement appeared to be based on an assessment by the business department. “It remains open to the interpretation that this is the Treasury simply reporting the decision of the Business department and not making a judgment of its own,” he said. 