 Andy Murray could hardly be more excited about playing in Great Britain's Davis Cup tie against Croatia next week and giving Tim Henman the send-off the British No1 feels his predecessor deserves. That excitement is mixed, however, with a sense of foreboding about life without Henman, which Murray will experience today. Henman has withdrawn from the Turbo Tennis event at the O2 Arena following the birth of his third child yesterday. Murray is realistic enough to accept that the physical and mental burden may eventually become too much and hinted yesterday that he might eventually be forced to choose between his own ambitions and those he has for his national team. "It's not that I don't want to play Davis Cup. I love Davis Cup, but it's just that I'm hurting myself from playing it, so I have to make a decision whether to play Davis Cup, whether to take a couple of weeks off after it..." the Scot said yesterday, speaking at the launch of the Royal Bank of Scotland's Supergrounds scheme to improve school playgrounds nationwide. "You know, it's hard on you. If you look at what has happened to me, a lot of the time when I have played Davis Cup, such as after Ukraine last year, I was playing great before that and I hardly won another match for the rest of the year. I hurt my neck when I played against Israel in Eastbourne last year. I hurt my back in Monte Carlo straight after Davis Cup this year. Maybe they have been coincidences, but there have been four or five different times when it has happened." If Great Britain beat Croatia they will find themselves in the World Group with the Murray brothers and not much else with which to do battle against teams containing two, three or more singles players ranked in the top 50. Even if Great Britain lose the tie and remain in Euro-Africa Zone Group One, winning ties and avoiding relegation will be incredibly hard. Both Andy and Jamie Murray frequently stress how much they love playing for their country but then so did Henman, Roger Federer, Carlos Moyá, Lleyton Hewitt and a host of other elite singles players who have chosen, at various times, to sacrifice Davis Cup play because they felt it was affecting the progress of their individual careers. Ivan Ljubicic, who is likely to be Croatia's singles stalwart against the British at Wimbledon, along with the teenager Marin Cilic, was instrumental in his nation winning the Davis Cup in 2005 but he too is giving up playing the team competition after this season. Murray's enjoyment of playing in the lively, pressured atmospheres Davis Cup tends to attract and the presence of his brother in the squad should keep him playing for Great Britain for as long as he reasonably can but he badly needs another top-100-ranked singles player to emerge or a radical change in the tour schedule which allows for more time off around Davis Cup ties. Neither seems to be in sight. For now, he will juggle his commitments as best he can and hope the situation changes, otherwise it may not be only to Henman that the Davis Cup crowds will be saying goodbye. 