Boys in the Trees is no walk in the park; more like a stroll home on a dark spooky night. That’s the literal journey undertaken in the debut feature film of writer/director Nicholas Verso, a tale of two estranged teenage buddies walking the streets and creeping each other out at Halloween circa 1997. Underneath the bonnet, it’s a film exploring childhood regret: in particular, how petty schoolyard games can fracture friendships. Corey (Toby Wallace) hangs out with the cool boys. They swig vodka straight from the bottle, check porn sites (on rather slow dial-up connections), hang out at the skate park and pash girls. Ringleader Jango (Justin Holborow) is the leader of the pack: a self-entitled and violent sleazeball who considers himself something of a demigod. The sort of guy you want to slap in the face with a cold fish. Jonah (Gulliver McGrath) is not one of the cool boys. He and Corey were best childhood mates, but Jonah was dumped like a bag of bricks when he was picked on at school. Suggestions are made to Corey, an aspiring photographer, that he is better than the company he keeps, including words of wisdom from potential love interest Romany (Mitzi Ruhlmann). This indicates the story will be at least partly about a journey towards redemption. When Jonah, clad in red hoodie and caked in War Boys-style makeup, starts telling heebie-jeebies stories, Verso sets about illustrating things that go bump in the night. Sinister looking shadows will crawl across a wall, for example, or lights will flicker and turn funny. This is probably the film at its most entertaining: a sort of Nowhere Boys gone Goth, or an attempt to reinvent The Babadook by way of Heartbreak High. Perhaps there were budgetary constraints or resource issues, because the quasi-Fright Night flourishes are fleeting and ultimately feel half-hearted. Or perhaps the director’s mind was more focused on the rekindling of the relationship between the two boys. Verso’s aligning of heart-to-heart conversations with oogie-boogie yarns is a hugely ambitious combo. There are times when the film-maker conjures up something memorably surreal, including a Day of the Dead-themed house party and the titular scene involving a chinwag in the trees. Tighter cuts in the editing room or during the scripting process could have made a substantial improvement. The opening act spends a long time establishing a familiar framework, for instance, and there are multiple endings – none of which quite hang together. Girl Asleep recently covered similar ground, vis-à-vis coming-of-age fused with hallucinatory walks into the wilderness, as did Swiss Army Man, the so-called farting corpse movie. The 90s period setting of Boys in the Trees feels, if not superfluous, probably misguided. Like the film-maker has prioritised recreating elements of his own youth ahead of tailoring the film to the young adult demographic, for which it is presumably intended. On the plus side, it goes some way towards marking the film as a personal work – perhaps one about confronting the demons of Verso’s own past. There is a certain commendable bravery in that. Boys in the Trees is fundamentally about human beings disconnecting and reconnecting. The fantasy-tinged elements can double down, but if person-to-person interactions cease feeling genuine the director was always going to find himself in trouble. This where the dialogue lets him down. The young cast give it a good crack but cannot overpower the weight of contrivance. Even highly experienced actors and film-makers would struggle to pull off overwritten lines such as: “The best way to keep the wolf from your door is to go to his.” And: “If you want to run with the wolves” – again with the wolves! – “you’ve got to kill a few lambs.” The characters assigned these highfalutin words are not middle-aged witchdoctors or world-weary windbags: they’re impetuous teenagers. That’s less a break in realism than a plausibility deathblow. It is also indicative – and there’s certainly no shame in this – of a film that works hard to give young audiences something meaty to chew on. On those terms, at least, it is a modest success.  • Boys in the Trees is playing in Australian cinemas from 20 October 