 Romantics may feel frustrated. While Martina Hingis was winning handsomely in Rome, her boyfriend Radek Stepanek was getting a thorough tonking in Hamburg, losing 6-1, 6-3, 6-3 to Tommy Robredo in the final of the Masters Series. Realists will feel otherwise. It was only a mixture of fortune and opportunism which enabled Stepanek to get so far, and it was still arguably the best week of his career, one which has ended with him reaching the world's top 10 for the first time. Text messages from the lady were also a consolation. Even he did not look too despondent at being beaten by a boyish-looking Spaniard whose game is far better constructed for clay and who deservedly won his first major title. Robredo has spent most of his career in the shadow of several great clay-court players from Spain and he emerged from it with an immaculate, disciplined and almost nerveless performance. "There wasn't much I could do. Tommy just played his best match," the Czech said. "He was playing high topspins which were landing most of the time on the line." Remarkably, he might have done worse than take advice from Greg Rusedski, whose surprise first-round win against Robredo in Rome a fortnight ago suddenly looks very good indeed. "I was lost," Robredo now recalled. "I think if I had a coach I would never have lost that match. I couldn't see what to do." He still admits to feeling "very alone" and empathises only too well with Andy Murray, whom he knows quite well from their days together in Barcelona and whose coachless predicament is not dissimilar. He even had some advice for the British teenager: take your time. "It's not just a good knowledge you need, it's a good person. There's all the time you spend together, travelling, having dinner, and making arrangements. If you don't like the person it becomes impossible, and you can't always tell if you will or not." Nevertheless Robredo remained effective enough to spin a web of ground strokes around Stepanek's struggles to get to the net, wrapping him up in little more than two hours. There were crisis moments in the fourth game, when Robredo had Stepanek in trouble on his serve. There followed moments of irritation and high farce as the American umpire Norm Chryst was summoned from his chair repeatedly to adjudicate on close calls and made to fiddle around in the dirt for where the ball might have landed. Once Robredo had broken, the pattern was set. Stepanek could not match him from the baseline and, although he could win more games by gambling at the net, he did not stop Robredo's match-winning passes. 