Although Spector’s defence team hopes to use Stella’s relationships in the workplace against her, she is still managing to close the net on him, and all despite being unable to raise her voice above a whisper. Anderson makes some startling discoveries about our handsome murderer’s time in London, as well as some bleak information about what happened to him in care, as fed to him by Burns, who is now throwing himself enthusiastically at the bottle. Concludes tomorrow. Ben Arnold You should avoid waging war on two fronts and, after a promising start, it looks as if this show’s twin UK and German narratives are making Paranoid a little sluggish. Nonetheless, the core business of the series – which is to say the emotional drama between Bobby (Robert Glenister) and his demons, and between Bobby and Lucy – comes to a head tonight as Lucy reveals the secret long alluded to by Dr Crowley. Meanwhile in Germany, there’s a breakthrough in the drug trials. John Robinson The end of the contrived but moreish reality contest’s second series, the first one involving contestants who have seen the show before. Those who have got this far have more or less cracked it and are only a tired blunder, or a conveniently fortunate breakthrough by the hunters, away from remaining at large for the required 28 days. Tonight Nick, Ayo, and Anna and Elizabeth must all overcome being spotted if they’re to take a share of the £100,000 prize. Jack Seale Jude Law crawls through a mound of babies and emerges, as if from the womb, in the Vatican. The opening seconds of Oscar-winner Paolo Sorrentino’s creation set the tone: dreamlike, woozy and strange. Law plays Lenny Belardo, the first American Pope, who is shaking things up with his cardinal-baiting and his Cherry Coke Zero. The whole thing is languid and surreal, but undoubtedly beautiful; and it features Diane Keaton in a nun’s habit, too. Kate Abbott By the time this fluffy addendum airs, we will know who has been crowned GBBO 2016 champ, even if the future of the sugar-dusted TV juggernaut itself remains unclear. Such ambiguity will not deter Mel and Sue from catching up with Bake Off 2015’s lovable batch of cheery competitors – including endearing winner Nadiya, hot doc Tamal and lion-bread pioneer Paul – to chronicle what they’ve been up to since leaving the tent of dreams. Graeme Virtue Nebula and Titan face the Liberty challenge before stepping into the bearded emperor’s lair this week. Calm down, this isn’t Game of Thrones, but a trip to the London department store to flog luxury goods. The teams try product selection, personal shopping and dressing their own windows. Warning: includes a cat-themed brainstorm, in which everyone thinks their mediocre ideas are a flash of genius. Watch that confidence shrivel in the boardroom. Hannah Verdier Ghosts are real, and W has the haunted hotel to prove it. For this new series, it will be filling it with various as-yet-unnamed celebrities and refusing to let them leave until they’ve been thoroughly terrified for our amusement. Not only that, but viewers will be allowed to nominate them for spooky tasks and snigger at their knocking knees. Ringmasters of this dubious paranormal circus are Christine Lampard, Jamie East and Matt Richardson. Phil Harrison Tanu Weds Manu Returns (Aanand L Rai, 2015), 1.10am, Channel 4 This sequel to the hit Bollywood romcom is set four years later. With the supposedly perfect marriage of Tanu (Kangana Ranaut) and Manu (R Madhavan) now failing, she does a runner, from London to India, to kickstart her life. Hubby’s attempts at reconciliation are hindered when he falls for the crop-haired, sporty, spitting image of his wife (also played by Ranaut). It’s thoughtful on love and marriage – and good fun with it. Paul Howlett WTA Tennis 8.45am, BT Sport 1 Coverage from the group stage of the WTA Finals in Singapore, which features the world’s top eight women players competing for the title. Serie A Football: Palermo v Udinese 7.30pm, BT Sport 1 Coverage of the Italian top-flight clash at Stadio Renzo Barbera. Cycling: Six Day London 7.30pm, Eurosport 1 Coverage of the third day at the Lee Valley velodrome. 