When Stephen Fry abandoned QI last year, after more than a decade of service, it seemed only sensible to assume he would be replaced by a rotating panel of guest hosts. After all, that’s what Have I Got News For You and Never Mind the Buzzcocks did to no great disaster. Viewers are used to seeing a new face drafted in every week to offer the illusion of freshness. If QI had done the same, no one would have minded in the slightest. But it didn’t, thank God, because it found the perfect permanent replacement in Sandi Toksvig. Watching her debut episode was both exciting and reassuring; reassuring because her introduction was low-key and seamless, and exciting because her presence helped blow away some of the cobwebs that inevitably built up during Fry’s tenure. Toksvig was attentive and personable. She was generous enough to let her guests wander off down individual tangents, but sharp enough to pitch in with her own gags when she saw space for them – and strict enough to keep things trotting along at a brisk pace. She will do very well on QI. But that isn’t a surprise, because Toksvig tends to do well at everything she touches. Most people probably didn’t see her Channel 4 daytime quiz 1001 Things You Should Know, because most people probably aren’t work-from-home freelance journalists with nothing better to do than spend their afternoons shouting at the television. But where most daytime hosts flit between time-killing woo-woo (Noel Edmonds on Deal or No Deal), misjudged primetime effervescence (Davina McCall on Five Minutes to a Fortune) or abject kill-me-now boredom (Ben Shephard on Tipping Point), Toksvig hit the perfect balance between warmth and detachment. She let the game be the star of the show, while gently urging contestants to impress her with their knowledge. It was no surprise when she followed this by signing up as host of the revamped Fifteen to One, quietly injecting a breath of humanity that was rarely present during William G Stewart’s Demon Headmaster years. But, really – even though she’s taking over the 13th year of a show that has been repeated so often on Dave that watching it feels like falling into some horrific infinite time-loop – it’s QI that feels most custom-made for her. Although QI never fell into the aggressive oneupmanship of other panel shows, it did sometimes suffer from uniformity of tone. There has always been a slight smugness to the series, a sense that you’re trapped in a pub with a load of men who all have suffocatingly high opinions of themselves. Toksvig’s presence cut through that a little last week. She’s still very Radio 4 in her delivery (not that it matters, because QI has always come off as a Radio 4 panel show that accidentally ended up on TV), but there’s a no-nonsense side to her character that manages to undercut some of the show’s worst tendencies. Hopefully, this will be present throughout her entire tenure on QI. And hopefully that tenure will be substantial. In a world where guest hosts have flattened panel shows out into an indistinguishable mess, Toksvig has given QI character again. 