 American teenager Andy Roddick wore down Gustavo Kuerten to record a shock 6-7 (4-7) 6-4 6-2 victory over the Brazilian top seed in the third round of the Masters Series tournament. Kuerten wilted in draining, humid conditions after taking the first set to go down to the talented 18-year-old who announced his presence this year with back-to-back titles in April and third-round showings at the French Open and Wimbledon.  Roddick blustered his way back after losing the first set, contesting a few stray line calls but more importantly frustrating last year's world number one with inspirational shot-making.  "I'm at home on the hard-courts," was the Roddick battle cry as he moved into a Friday quarter-final against Romanian Andrei Pavel, who ousted Morocco's Monte Carlo finalist Hicham Arazi 6-0 6-2.  The American, last season's world number one junior, said he would have no trouble getting ready for the match.  "I'll go out and play my game, I'll focus no matter what. This is the quarters of a Masters Series. There are no overwhelming favourites at that point. I'll go out and do my best," he said.  Kuerten, who dropped the first four games of the last set, admitted lethargy. "I didn't have the game today to fight," said the Brazilian, winner of five titles on the ATP Tour this season.  "He played well and didn't miss much. The match got away from me - now, at least, I have a few days off."  RAFTER ADVANCES Ninth seed Patrick Rafter beat his American friend Todd Martin for the seventh time in 10 career meetings, earning his first ever straight-sets win in the series with a 6-4 6-2 night-time result.  Rafter ignored the distraction of a one-hour rain interruption in the first set, coming back and picking up where he left off when the pair went off with the Australian 4-3 up.  Another 30 minutes and double Wimbledon finalist Rafter had booked a quarter-final against fourth seed Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain, a 2-6 7-6 (8-6) 6-3 winner over American 16th seed Jan-Michael Gambill.  "We came back out and since Todd is a big guy, it takes a bit (of time) for him to get going," said Rafter.  "He was a bit flatter and I took advantage. I really hit the ball really well and tried to pick and choose shots to come in on. I cannot find any fault at all with my game tonight."  HAAS REACHES LAST EIGHT German Tommy Haas battled against the jet-lag still lingering from last week's event in Los Angeles, but reached the last eight with a 6-7 (4-7) 6-4 7-6 (7-5) victory over Jerome Golmard of France.  For Haas, playing the opening 11:00 morning match for three consecutive days has meant losing out on some valuable rest time, but winning through has made it worthwhile.  "It means getting up at 7:30 every day, and I'm not getting to sleep until 1:30 in the morning right now," he said. "I'm not getting much rest and I'm feeling it."  Haas meets Australian Open finalist Arnaud Clement of France, who eliminated Spain's Alberto Martin 6-3 3-6 6-0.  France's Fabrice Santoro beat Spaniard Albert Costa 7-5 2-6 6-3 and next plays Czech Bohdan Ulihrach, who triumphed 6-3 1-6 6-2 over Nicolas Escude of France. 