Born in Copenhagen, Sofie Hagen performed on the Danish comedy circuit for two years before moving to London in 2012. Armed with a command of English honed on Westlife albums, she began playing shows that would lead to her winning the Laughing Horse New Act of the Year award in 2013. That year she also started hosting the podcast Comedians Telling Stuff, and in 2015 co-founded the Guilty Feminist podcast with Deborah Frances-White. Her debut show, Bubblewrap, about body image and self-harm, won her best newcomer at the Edinburgh comedy awards. This year she appeared in the Channel 4 miniseries Outsiders and is currently touring her second solo show, Shimmer Shatter. Shrill by Lindy West  Lindy West is an American journalist, and she’s a woman who is confidently fat, which is a rare thing. I think she must have been my first body-positive role model. This is a feminist, empowering book; I cried the whole way through, though it’s very funny as well. We live in a culture where so many people criticise political correctness: they make it sound like those of us who care about it are angry and bitter, whereas she sees this deep sadness and hopelessness in people who think that way about others. It’s nice to read something that you know would have changed your life for ever if you’d read it when you were 16. The ParaPod  This is made by two comedians, Ian Boldsworth and Barry Dodds: it’s two friends talking about the paranormal, and it’s the funniest thing. The first season is about ghosts, the second is about mysteries, and the new one is conspiracy theories. Ian is a sceptic and disproves everything that Barry brings up, and Barry believes in everything, he needs no evidence. When I was a child I bought all these books about ghosts and I loved them so much, then I grew up and became a boring adult. So you hear the two parts of your brain, the one that wants to believe in magic and Santa Claus and ghosts, and the other part that goes “none of this real”. Phoenix Artist Club, London  I was really conflicted about including this because I love it so much I don’t want anyone else to be there. It’s mainly a bar but it’s a lot of things: in the daytime it’s a hub, around the late afternoon it turns into an amazing restaurant, and in the evening it becomes a space for gigs and cabarets. It used to be this very exclusive members-only club for people in musical theatre. You’ll have people playing the piano, you’ll have a drag queen and someone who still has their makeup on after their show, and then the whole cast of Stomp will come down and someone will start drumming on something. It’s this magical thing you wouldn’t really know happened just in central London. The Alison Spittle Show  Alison Spittle is an Irish comedian and the funniest person I know. She’s started this talk show in Dublin where she has a live band and brings on special guests, including some quite big names, and she is apparently bringing the show to the UK next year. You don’t often see female talkshow hosts, and Alison manages somehow to be like an alpha, but without the ego of the straight white male. It’s such a warm show – she’s a positive person and very interested in people so it becomes a nice, intimate chat about people’s lives and careers. It can also be very silly. The Spook School  I think they’re described as a post-punk indie pop band, but I just call it joyful jumpy music. It’s very happy and positive, and they sing about sexuality and queer issues. It’s so progressive and fun: you don’t have to have read all the books to understand it, you can just listen and dance. On my tour I’m trying to make all the venues have gender-neutral toilets, and I got that idea because the Spook School did this. I have women coming up to me with tears in their eyes saying: “Thank you, because my daughter or son is transgender and it feels so good knowing they’re going to grow up in a world that has a bit more respect for them.” Gone for Good  I’m really into decluttering. I live in London so I live in basically a shed: I have one single bed and everything’s tiny and there’s no space anywhere, but if you want to get rid of a well functioning mattress or something you have to call the council and it’s expensive. But with this app you choose your favourite charity – I always go for Mind – and then tell them what you have: clothes, furniture, jewellery. They send a volunteer to pick it up, and they sell it and make a profit. It’s such a lovely thing. Scandinavian Kitchen, London  I mean no disrespect but British food is not the best in the world. I really do miss Danish food. Scandinavian Kitchen is a cafe close to Oxford Circus where you can go have coffee and eat smørrebrød [rye bread sandwiches] and Danish chocolate. The rye bread is the thing I miss the most, because at home you have that every single day, sometimes for breakfast and lunch, it’s even part of Christmas dinner. You can put anything on top of it and it tastes amazing. 