 “Better teams than us have found it difficult,” Brendan Rodgers said before this game, but even he cannot have imagined it would be quite this hard. Celtic’s opening night in this season’s Champions League was a long one, a goal coming inside the opening three minutes, another coming inside the closing three minutes and five more between them. Three for Leo Messi, two for Luis Suárez and one each for Neymar and Andrés Iniesta completed a destruction, Celtic’s worst ever defeat in this competition and Barcelona’s best win. No European Cup-winning club has ever lost by more in this competition. For a manager who declared himself an “admirer of everything that Barcelona stand for”, this was a painful demonstration of their qualities. Barcelona inflicted seven goals and a thousand cuts upon their visitors, not just playing the game in Celtic’s half but playing much of it inside their own area. If the first half was impressive, the second was cruel. By the end, a Moussa Dembélé penalty saved by Marc-André ter Stegen was long forgotten, buried beneath the football that engulfed Celtic. Rodgers admitted he felt helpless as he watched from the touchline. It started early from a corner, but not by the traditional route. Instead Neymar took it short to Jordi Alba, who gave it back to him out on the left touchline from where he cut back inside and, with the defence stepping out, turned the ball into the area for Messi to control and hit high into the top corner from the edge of the six-yard box. The clock showed 2:45; this looked like being a long night for Celtic. Kolo Touré smashed one off his own post; Messi slipped the ball through the legs of Nir Bitton to thump narrowly wide; and Suárez slid in, inches from providing the finish to what was essentially a 40-yard one-two with Messi. A pattern seemed to have been set early: Barcelona had the ball while Celtic ran after it, usually arriving too late. And yet, it was Ter Stegen who arrived late, on 22 minutes and momentarily gave life to this game. Scott Sinclair’s run began inside the centre circle and took him to the edge of the area, where he slipped the ball through to Dembélé. Out came Ter Stegen, bringing him down for a penalty. As the striker stood over the spot, the German goalkeeper performed star jumps, a bright orange-pink figure with even brighter yellow extremities. Then, he dived to his right and pushed the penalty away two-handed. Rodgers lamented the opportunity lost and Barcelona soon raced out of sight. Rodgers had said Celtic’s opponents could find space even if you parked two double-decker buses, and this was a good example. Messi, Neymar, Messi, Neymar, through tiny green and white gaps they went, back and forth, until Messi finished from barely a yard. Then Ivan Rakitic had one cleared off the line and Neymar was stopped by Dorus de Vries, although their pressing did occasionally allow an exit route and a neat combination released Kieran Tierney whose pass was finished by Sinclair, in an offside position. Three minutes into the second half, Barcelona had the third; the real destruction had begun, Neymar curling in a free-kick. If the score worried Rodgers the time probably did too: there was more of this to come. Neymar clipped in a cross for Iniesta, on as a substitute for Rakitic at half-time, to do something very unlike Iniesta: he absolutely smashed the volley into the net. It was four now; it would be five almost before they realised it. Barely 15 seconds passed between Celtic kicking off and the ball hitting their net. Again the pressure was high, the passing was crisp. Suárez pulled back for Messi to slide the ball in and complete a hat-trick. It was not that Barcelona were rattling off shots from all over the place; it is not their way and they did not need to. Yes, Neymar had curled in from 25 yards and Iniesta had belted his, but Messi’s three came from a combined total of hardly 15 yards and the two goals that followed were from similar distances. Barcelona were slicing through Celtic, the moves not finished until they had virtually run out of pitch. Celtic might have been deep by design but Barcelona pushed them further and they could not find a way out. Suárez and his team-mates barely let them breathe. Barcelona combined inside the area often. When, momentarily, the visitors stepped up, leaving space, Barcelona flooded into it with speed. Celtic may have regretted their passivity. Of the front three, only Suárez had not scored, “that beautiful man”, Rodgers had called him and he soon remedied that when Neymar clipped the ball on to his chest by the corner of the six-yard box. He controlled, turned and thumped the ball into the roof of the net. Six, then seven. Another short corner, Messi’s ball across and Suárez poked it in from close range. 