 Jürgen Klopp has dismissed suggestions there are problems in his relationship with Jordon Ibe and insisted the winger has a promising future. The 20-year-old impressed throughout Liverpool’s 2-1 Premier League victory at Bournemouth on Sunday, displaying fine footwork on the left wing and providing the cross from which Daniel Sturridge headed their second goal. His appearance was only his third since February, despite their intense schedule, and came after he had featured regularly from Klopp’s October appointment until then. Suggestions persist that a rift developed over what Klopp perceived to be an unwillingness to track back and defend, but having watched Ibe re-establish himself as a first-team option against a below-par Bournemouth, the manager praised the player’s “big talent”. “I heard from somewhere that Jordon has some problems with me or something?” Klopp said. “Only a few young players can come up and sometimes they are in the squad, sometimes not. “He’s still a brilliant, big talent which is very good for English football. He did well with the pass for the first goal, and the cross for the second. I was very happy. It was a beautiful pass from Jordon Ibe [for Sturridge’s goal]. We had a lot of moments and it’s absolutely exciting.” On the evidence provided by their poor performance, Bournemouth have relaxed since last month’s 3-2 defeat of Swansea took them to the verge of securing their Premier League status. They have won only once since then – away to Aston Villa, who are the only team so far to be relegated to the Championship – conceding 10 goals in four games. Eddie Howe, though critical of their performance, stressed that in what could have been a difficult season, their success should not be overlooked. “To get over 40 points has probably been our biggest achievement to date but my focus has to be on the here and now, and I’m disappointed [with Sunday’s result],” he said, having also given the substitute Callum Wilson his first home appearance since he injured his anterior cruciate ligaments at the season’s start. “But overall we’re very pleased. We just want to protect [Wilson] at this moment and nurse him back, that was a nice step up and workload for him. But he’s looking good.” 