 Only a handful of the Pocket Wimbledon devices are being piloted at this year's championships, but senior officials believe they could revolutionise the way major sporting, political and scientific events are watched.  In the case of Wimbledon, the machines allow replays of line calls, check match statistics, call up biographies of players and list scores. Images are constantly updated by local transmitters and displayed on 2in screens.  'It is only a trial, but if we get good feedback from the people we are using to test out our devices, we will iron out any flaws and bring them into widespread use within a couple of years,' said Mark McMurrugh, IBM's project director at Wimbledon.  The Pocket Wimbledon is based on the personal digital assistant - known as a PDA - which packs as much power as a typical desktop machine did five years ago, but can be slipped into a jacket. Sales are booming as costs plummet.  The electronic database for Wimbledon is one of the largest created for any sporting event in the world. More than 180 staff are responsible for keying in details of each point played on every game - who served it, for instance, plus the speed of the shot, and what sort of stroke eventually won it.  'You can generate 50 separate statistics from a single point of one match,' said McMurrugh. 'It creates a massive database.'  This information is also displayed on the Wimbledon website which had more than a million visitors in the first three days of this year's championships. Now it is hoped that these images and data will be available to spectators who are actually watching live tennis.  'Suppose you witness a disputed line call,' said McMurrugh. 'You could use your PDA to call up a video of that last point and check out for yourself - without moving from your seat. Or if you suddenly find yourself watching a Wimbledon favourite going out to a complete unknown, you will be able to call up his or her biography - again without moving from your seat. Or you can watch a match on another court as players change over on your court.'  At present, TV broadcasts of Wimbledon matches are strictly controlled. However, McMurrugh believes it should be possible to provide high-quality live images of all games using a local radio network so that only those inside the All England Club's grounds can pick up signals and use the pocket devices. Either devices would be rented out as spectators arrive, or - more probably - people would bring their own PDAs and have software installed to pick up coverage.  Other events likely to prove popular should the system prove successful are cricket matches that typically involve many disputed calls and where player statistics are frequently sought; scientific conferences where several key presentations are provided simultaneously; or even political conferences which have many different meetings taking place at the same time. 