Leading shares are struggling for direction after the long Bank Holiday weekend, but Primark owner Associated British Foods is striding higher. The company is up 64p or more than 2% at £30.14 following a positive note from analysts at RBC, who moved their recommendation from sector perform to outperform and raised their target price from £28 to £34. On Primark RBC said: We think Primark is relatively well positioned as it is the cheapest retailer in the price-conscious UK apparel sector. It has also improved on customer perception for product and style according to our latest customer survey. In addition it has relatively high non-UK exposure (around 50% of Primark and around 57% of group sales) meaning it is relatively shielded from cost and currency pressures in the UK. We expect like for like sales to remain muted owing to a tough consumer backdrop and the lack of an ecommerce offer, however we have raised them slightly versus easy comparisons.  And on the company’s sugar business which has struggled recently, RBC said: For Sugar a reduction in EU stock levels and a recent increase in world sugar prices have resulted in a strengthening in European sugar prices. This should help AB Sugar’s profit trajectory from next year. We also think an exit from China would be well received by the market and would further strengthen ABF’s already under- leveraged balance sheet.  But mining shares are proving a drag on the market after Friday’s speech by Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen held out the prospect of a rise in US interest rates this year, despite mixed economic signals. The rate rise talk supported the dollar, which in turn hit commodity prices. So Antofagasta has fallen 24.5p to 517p, Rio Tinto is down 105p at 2362.5p, and Glencore has lost 6.1p to 178.9p. Even precious metal miners, often a haven for investors, are under pressure, with Randgold Resources down 350p at £73.25 and Fresnillo falling 65p to £17.25. Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said: Holding back the [mining] sector are two drivers. The first is technicals after major breakdowns in the prices of key raw materials iron and copper, both barometers of global growth. The second is a stronger US dollar (3-week highs and still rising) which makes the latter more expensive. This is a product of Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s Jackson Hole speech last Friday, one which saw her accomplish the difficult task of offering something for both the doves and hawks on monetary policy watch. The fact that US markets closed only marginally lower on Friday and posted gains last night suggests an absence of panic about another rate rise. Markets appear to be increasingly coming round to the prospect of another US rate hike this year. Friday’s US non-farm payroll numbers will be the next big indicator of the strength or otherwise of the country’s economy, and thus the Fed’s likely view on any move in borrowing costs. Overall the FTSE 100 is virtually unchanged, down just 1.25 points at 6836.80 despite a bigger than expected drop in UK mortgage approvals in July. Among the other gainers, Bunzl is 47p higher at £24.67 after the distribution group reported better than expected first half profits, up 13% to £210.6m. Banks are better, with Standard Chartered adding 12.1p to 635p and HSBC 9.8p higher at 556.7p. 