Leading shares are pausing for breath after China’s economy grew in line with expectations, and ahead of the final US presidential debate. Disappointing results from Travis Perkins and Reckitt Benckiser have helped undermine any gains the market might have been contemplating, so the FTSE 100 is down 15.50 points at 6984.56. Unemployment and average earnings figures have had little impact so far. Travis Perkins is the biggest FTSE 100 faller, down just over 5% at £14.10 as the builders merchants group warned on 2016 profits and said it would close 30 branches putting 600 jobs at risk. But Reckitt is close behind, falling 250p to £70.77. The Dettol to Nurofen to Durex business reported a bigger than expected slowdown in third quarter like for like sales growth, up just 2% compared to expectations of a 2.8% rise. Including currency movements reported sales rose 17% as the slump in the pound boosted overseas revenues. But it reported disappointing sales in Europe and North America, especially for new Scholl products, and continuing weakness in Russia. Its Korean business fell back after its handling of a scandal involving the death of 92 people. The company said if the performance in the fourth quarter was the same as the third, it would not make its full year targets. It would not comment on the impact of sterling’s fall on pricing in the UK. George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: The group’s image has been seriously damaged in Korea after it recently accepted a RB product was responsible for spate of fatal lung problems. The inevitable slowdown there was enough to dent group sales. Having already set aside £300m for the issue, investors will hope that there are no further charges to come in relation to the tragic episode.  Declining sales in Korea might have been expected, but today’s results also confirm weaker trends in other areas. While the disappointing performance from the latest Scholl products may not be the end of the world, the group will hope for improvements in the future. But Burberry is 31p better at £14.34 after positive analyst comment after its falls after Tuesday’s update. Barclays raised its target price from £13.50 to £14.50, saying: Expectations were running high coming into the figures following LVMH results last week - so in line figures have been met with some disappointment with the stock down high single-digits. We have raised both the EPS and price target by 7% based on 19 times 2017 calendar PE.  UBS was also positive, issuing a buy note: Although expectations on Burberry had been high into the quarter, we believe that the share price weakness (-7%) was an overreaction given in line figures and no change to consensus pretax profit excluding foreign exchange. Our buy rating on Burberry is based on our view that the share price does not reflect the true value of the retail productivity improvements and cost savings plan laid out at the strategy update on 18th May. We believe that the return to positive like for like of +2% in the second quarter should give confidence in this longer term potential. Additionally we were positively surprised that cost control measures will now come in above expectations for both the full year and the first half so offsetting the downgrade in wholesale guidance. Mining companies are also generally higher after the Chinese GDP figures reassured investors about the country’s economic outlook. Anglo American has added 25.5p to £10.55 and Rio Tinto has risen 2p to 2617.5p. But BHP Billiton has slipped 5p to £12.07 as it met analysts expectations for iron ore and petroleum production, but disappointed on coal. Among the mid-caps Apple-supplier Laird has slumped nearly 50% to 160.8p after a shock profit warning. Analyst Nick James at Numis said: Laird has warned that 2016 profit will be around 36% short of our expectations, with pretax profit now expected to be around £50m (Num £77m). This is despite an incremental foreign exchange tailwind of around £5m to pretax profit since we cut estimates at the interims. The huge shortfall is attributed to the Performance Materials division, where volumes, pricing and margins at Apple appear to be well short of expectations. Given recent Apple supply chain data is suggesting solid end demand for iPhone7, the issues appear to be Laird specific. We cut earnings per share by 36% in 2016 to 14.3p from 22.2p and by 39% in 2017 to 15.5p from 25.5p. Sentiment and confidence in forecasts will clearly be significantly dented and we place recommendation under review. Net debt should still be within covenants at year end (Num 3.2 times versus covenant at 3.5 times), although the balance sheet also now comes into focus.  