 Kevin Pietersen's outrageous switch-hitting stroke, which produced two sixes in the one-day international against New Zealand on Sunday, was yesterday sanctioned by cricket's lawmakers. The MCC gave its approval for the shot - whereby the England batsman switched from a right-handed grip to left-handed to hit deliveries from the medium-pacer Scott Styris - to be used in all forms of cricket, meaning he is free to attempt it again today when the teams meet at Edgbaston. The International Cricket Council, the world governing body, had referred the matter to the MCC, which said in a statement: "MCC believes that the switch-hit stroke is exciting for the game of cricket. Indeed, the stroke conforms to the Laws of Cricket and will not be legislated against. MCC believes that the stroke is a difficult shot to execute and that it incurs a great deal of risk for the batsman. It also offers bowlers a good chance of taking a wicket and therefore MCC believes that the shot is fair to both batsman and bowlers." Pietersen said: "I am very pleased by the MCC's decision and I think it's the right one not just for me or England but the game as a whole. It's important that we as players are involved and if this shot helps make cricket more exciting and entertaining then that has to be good." Despite the battering that his bowling took at the Riverside, Styris also declared himself pleased with the decision. "Sometimes you have to take your hat off and say well played. It was good cricket. It crossed my mind to try it myself when I was out there but then I thought if I get out it's a double blow to me." The shot was superbly executed by Pietersen on his way to an unbeaten century. "There's a lot of innovation coming into the game at the moment and Kevin's just taken it one step further," said Styris. "If it comes up again I will have to come up with a new technique. At the time I thought I would bowl slower and wider so he would have to fetch it. You have to think on your feet. It's a bit like a bloke coming down the pitch at you." Switch-hitting may have gained approval yesterday but it may still be banned by some coaches if it is associated with a high mortality rate for batsmen. The stroke was quite the thing when England trained yesterday. Pietersen was at it again; so, less successfully, was Ravi Bopara. And then there was Graeme Swann. "I tried it and I ended hitting the floor, tripping over and pirouetting on a length, which to be honest is better than I hoped it would be. I've got a massive bruise on my thigh to show for my efforts," said the Nottinghamshire all-rounder. "I think it's brilliant, KP's shot," he said. "It's got everyone talking. It had 16,000 people leaving the ground talking about it on Sunday and it's dominated all the newspaper headlines since. I think it's fantastic. It's a freak of nature how he can do it. And the ball didn't just dribble over the line but cleared it handsomely. "The sheer audacity of Kev to pull it off is what I like most. The first one ... no one knew what he was doing. To hit it as cleanly as he did was laughable, sheer KP. Had he been caught doing it the first time everyone would have said what an idiot he was. And had he got out second time people would have said that he got too cocky. We loved it in the changing room. We were all gobsmacked. But I don't think anyone else has got the balls to try it in an ODI." Swann, 29, was dropped from England's one-day side in New Zealand, in a series the Kiwis won 3-1, but is expected to keep his place in an unchanged side today. Like Stuart Broad, his batting lends depth to the England team. "I didn't play in the last three one-dayers in New Zealand so I was pleased my form with Notts this season was good. I didn't expect to get back in but I wasn't surprised either. Andrew Flintoff was restricted to fielding duty yesterday as the England all-rounder returned to action from a side strain. He bided his time at second slip as Lancashire were held up by some late-order hitting on the first day of a second-XI fixture with Durham. Seemingly restricted to a batting brief in Alderley Edge, Flintoff will hope to make his mark today. England1 IR Bell; 2 LJ Wright; 3 KP Pietersen; 4 RS Bopara; 5 PD Collingwood*; 6 OA Shah; 7 TR Ambrose†; 8 GP Swann 9 SCJ Broad; 10 JM Anderson; 11 RJ Sidebottom New Zealand1 JM How; 2 BB McCullum; 3 GD Elliott; 4 LRPL Taylor; 5 SB Styris; 6 DR Flynn; 7 GJ Hopkins†; 8 DL Vettori*; 9 KD Mills; 10 TG Southee; 11 MJ Mason Umpires Steve Davis Aus Ian Gould Eng TV Sky Sports 1, 10.30am Radio Radio 4LW, 5 Live Sports Extra, 10.30am 