What we know about the politicians being given roles in the newly announced Conservative top team 
Rowena Mason, 
Peter Walker and 
Jessica Elgot 
 Theresa May has announced the key appointments to her cabinet: Philip Hammond as chancellor, Boris Johnson as foreign secretary and Amber Rudd as home secretary. Also revealed were the newly created roles of secretary of state for exiting the European Union, Brexit minister, which is to be taken up by David Davis; and a new Department for International Trade, to be headed up by Liam Fox. The defence secretary, Michael Fallon, stays in his role. The shorthand caricature of the new chancellor of the exchequer is that he is the ultimate safe pair of hands in government: a hardworking, technocratic colleague who will happily and conscientiously take good care of tricky ministries. Hammond, 60, the MP for Runnymede and Weybridge since 1997, has worked his way up with efficient handling of some complex ministerial briefs. In opposition, he shadowed as pensions secretary and chief secretary to the Treasury before beginning in government in the slightly more junior role of transport minister as the coalition deal gave the Lib Dems his old post.  Immediately in government he showed his populist side, declaring Labour’s mythical “war on motorists” to be over and proposing to increase the motorway speed limit to 80mph, until the extra death toll this would have caused prompted the plan to be scrapped. As defence secretary in 2013 he attracted criticism by talking about “a real sense of anger among many people who are married” who felt the gay marriage law would change the institution. Hammond was later alleged to have likened gay marriage to incest – something he denied. Hammond was brought up in Essex, where a classmate at his state school was the TV presenter Richard Madeley, who recalled the future politician arriving in class wearing a leather jacket “with the Guardian under his arm”. The former London mayor was once considered a frontrunner to succeed David Cameron. He fuelled this speculation when he came out as a Brexit supporter in February after rejecting the results of Cameron’s EU renegotiation, and quickly became the de facto leader of the main leave group. After the country voted for Brexit, he began the initial stages of a leadership bid but dramatically and unexpectedly dropped out when his campaign chief, Michael Gove, made the surprise decision to challenge him for the job. Born in New York, Johnson, 52, studied at Eton and Oxford University before working as a journalist. He was sacked from the Times for making up quotes, but reappeared at the Telegraph. He later edited the Spectator. His journalism continued during his political career, with earnings of £250,000 a year for his Daily Telegraph column, which he once referred to as “chicken feed”. He was forced to apologise for one column from 2002 in which he had referred to Africans greeting foreign visitors as “piccaninnies” and tribal warriors with “watermelon smiles”. He stood for parliament in 2001, winning the seat of Henley. As a shadow minister, he was forced to apologise to the city of Liverpool for the Spectator saying it was wallowing in the grief of murdered engineer Ken Bigley and Hillsborough. He was later sacked by Michael Howard in 2004 for lying about having had an affair with journalist Petronella Wyatt. But just a year later he was back as shadow education minister, from which he resigned in 2007, then successfully fighting the London mayoral contest.  After winning a second term as mayor, he went on to fight the seat of Uxbridge at the 2015 election and re-enter parliament. Rudd rose rapidly under the patronage of George Osborne in the last parliament, starting off as his parliamentary aide and ending in the cabinet. The 52-year-old is one of the few senior Tory MPs to have won a marginal seat from Labour, taking Hastings and Rye in 2010. After just two years on the backbenches she was promoted by the chancellor, before entering the whips’ office and then heading to the Department of Energy and Climate Change. Her appointment as energy secretary in 2015 was greeted with optimism by green groups, as she is committed to tackling climate change, unlike many of her colleagues on the right of the party. Asked about the scepticism of colleagues, she said at the Paris climate change conference: “I’m going to win them over. This is good for the economy. I approach it with a high moral purpose but also a strong pragmatic one for the economy in terms of building jobs.” Colleagues describe her as capable and confident, but she was accused of misleading the public after a leaked letter revealed that the UK was predicted to fall short of its obligations to get 15% of its energy from renewables by 2020, while the department was claiming that progress was being made toward that aim. Born in London, Rudd is the daughter of a stockbroker and was privately educated at Cheltenham Ladies’ College before studying at the University of Edinburgh.  Her brother is Roland Rudd, the wealthy founder of Finsbury PR, who is associated with the New Labour era and helped run the pro-EU Business for New Europe campaign group. She was married for five years to the Sunday Times columnist AA Gill, with whom she has two children. Fox had to resign as defence secretary in 2011 after just 18 months because of questions over the unorthodox access given to his friend and unofficial adviser Adam Werritty. However, he has made it clear in recent years that he thinks he has served his time on the backbench. He was a fairly prominent member of the Brexit campaign but as a leadership candidate was considered further to the right than Eurosceptic rivals Boris Johnson and Michael Gove. He ended up last in the contest out of five candidates. Fox has a strong interest in foreign policy and is seen as a hawkish Atlanticist. His political record includes voting against gay marriage and calling for the Guardian to be prosecuted for publishing the Edward Snowden leaks about mass surveillance of citizens in the US and UK. The 54-year-old was born in East Kilbride in Scotland and educated in the state system, before studying medicine at Glasgow University and becoming a doctor. He went on to work as a civilian army medical officer and was a GP before being elected as a Conservative MP in 1992. During his long parliamentary career, he served as a minister under John Major and in the shadow cabinets of William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith, Howard and David Cameron, against whom he ran for the leadership in 2005. However, his political heroine was Margaret Thatcher, who attended his 50th birthday party in 2011. The backbencher was once the favourite to be party leader but was beaten by Cameron when it came to the final shortlist of two in 2005. He continued in the prominent job of shadow home secretary and waged war against Labour’s plans for 42-day detention without charge and ID cards. However, he resigned as an MP in a one-man protest over civil liberties in 2008 to fight a byelection in his own seat. From the backbench, he continued his fight for civil liberties, opposing surveillance legislation proposed by Theresa May. During the referendum he was a Eurosceptic but chose to ally himself with the Grassroots Out group linked to Ukip donor Arron Banks. Davis, 67, is not a traditional Tory, having begun his life with a single mother in Yorkshire and growing up on a council estate in south London. He is considered a rightwinger within the party on some issues, having once supported the death penalty and opposed gay adoption, but willing to work on a cross-party basis with liberals and human rights groups who are concerned about privacy and surveillance. The defence secretary is staying in his job, despite having been a loyal ally of Cameron and Osborne. During the general election and EU referendum, Fallon was used by the leadership to voice aggressive messages, including the claim that Ed Miliband could not be trusted with the economy because he stabbed his brother in the back for the job of Labour leader. After the mayoral election, he was forced to apologise for saying Sadiq Khan had associated with a Muslim cleric who supported the terror group Islamic State, which was not true. Under David Cameron, Fallon has been a business minister, an energy minister, and then defence secretary. Greening becomes the first education secretary to have been educated at a comprehensive school.  Last month, on the weekend of London’s pride event, she also became the first female cabinet minister to be openly in a gay partnership. “I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you’re better off out!” she wrote on Twitter. The former development secretary is one of very few women at the top of the Conservative party with five years of cabinet experience. A former accountant and finance manager, she started off under the coalition as Osborne’s economic secretary to the Treasury, before a swift promotion to transport secretary in 2011. This proved an imperfect fit for the MP for Putney, in south-west London, given her opposition to a third runway at Heathrow. She was said to be disappointed when reshuffled sideways into the role of international development secretary, . but she ended up throwing herself into the job. The daughter and granddaughter of steelworkers from Rotherham, South Yorkshire, Greening was educated at a comprehensive school and studied economics at Southampton University before becoming an accountant for companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, Centrica and PwC. Now 47, her political positioning is very much as a “one nation Tory” who is trying to push the party to do more about social mobility.   Hunt has once again escaped the chop, surviving as health secretary despite clashing bitterly with striking doctors.  His cabinet career has been bumpy after he narrowly avoided the sack as culture secretary over a scandal about his special adviser’s contact with Rupert Murdoch’s News International during the BSkyB bid. The 49-year-old is one of the wealthiest members of the cabinet. Born in Surrey and privately educated at Charterhouse school, he studied PPE at Oxford University before working in management after building an educational publisher called Hotcourses. He entered parliament as the MP for South West Surrey in 2005 and became shadow minister for disabled people, before entering Cameron’s cabinet with the culture brief in 2010. Hunt thought about running for the leadership after Cameron resigned but did not get enough support from colleagues. The new work and pensions secretary is a parliamentary veteran on the moderate centrist wing of the party, with pro-European views and a fairly liberal standpoint. He is perhaps best known for having been arrested during a police raid on his office in the House of Commons in connection with a series of leaks from the Home Office. He was cleared of the allegations but gave a speech attacking the motivations for his arrest, saying: “An MP endangering national security would be a disgrace; an MP exposing embarrassing facts about Home Office policy that ministers are hiding is doing a job in the public interest.” The 60-year-old was born in Barry and educated at Reading School and Oxford University, where he was president of the Oxford Union. A former financial journalist, he went on to work in John Major’s policy unit before entering parliament in 1997. He was an immigration minister and a policing minister in May’s Home Office and supported her leadership campaign from the outset. Truss, the former environment secretary, was another of the women in the cabinet who backed May’s bid from the beginning. The new justice secretary will be another of the few northerners in the cabinet, born in Yorkshire, but representing the seat of South West Norfolk. Educated at a comprehensive and a former president of the Oxford University Liberal Democrats, Truss joined the Tories two years after graduating. Before politics, Truss was deputy director of the thinktank Reform, which pushed for more rigorous academic standards in schools as well as a tougher approach to organised and serious crime. In 2012, two years after she was first elected, she caused a stir with her book, Britain Unchained, in which she argued: “The British are among the worst idlers in the world.” Her tenure as children’s minister was not without controversy: she was criticised for suggesting restrictions on the number of babies and toddlers cared for by one childminder should be relaxed. A year ago, the new transport secretary’s star seemed to be on the wane. He was moved to become leader of the Commons after the 2015 general election, and his successor as justice secretary, Michael Gove, began undoing many of his policies. But Grayling, 54, a decade-long veteran of more than half a dozen frontbench roles, is a well-connected political survivor who has successfully shrugged off a series of controversies. One of the first came amid the MPs’ expenses scandal when it emerged in 2009 that Grayling, then shadow home secretary, had used parliamentary money to pay for and refurbish a central London flat even though his constituency home was little more than 15 miles from parliament. Grayling also owned – and still owns – two buy-to-let houses in Wimbledon, meaning he had four homes within the M25. The same year, Grayling was condemned for describing life in the deprived Manchester district of Moss Side as “urban war” after spending one night there. The following year he was handed the “bigot of the year” award by the charity Stonewall for saying bed and breakfast owners should be able to turn away gay couples. As justice secretary, he saw unwelcome headlines over issues including legal aid cuts that sparked an unprecedented walkout by barristers and solicitors, mandatory court charges and an attempt to ban books being sent to prisoners, most of which were later reversed. The former television producer and management consultant enjoyed a good Brexit campaign, strongly supporting departure from the EU but without noticeably briefing against fellow MPs, and then became one of May’s earlier backers. Patel was promoted last year to employment minister with the right to sit in cabinet after impressing the Tory leadership with her media performances during the election campaign. Less than a year later she was one of first ministers to confirm she would support Brexit. The new international development secretary was a key figure in the leave campaign, criticising the government’s record on immigration and warning that there was unsustainable pressure on primary school places. Despite that, she did not swing behind fellow Brexiter Andrea Leadsom in the Tory leadership contest, instead backing May at the last minute. As the daughter of Ugandan-Asian immigrants who ran newsagents in west London, the 44-year-old does not have the typical Tory background. She was educated at a state school and then at Keele University. Patel was a Conservative press officer in the Hague era. She has also spent some time in the private sector, as a public relations executive of Weber Shandwick, where a client was British American Tobacco, and in corporate affairs for Diageo, the drinks giant. Elected as MP for Witham in Essex in 2010, she has robust rightwing views, and once advocated the return of hanging.  May’s erstwhile rival for the Tory leadership is another Brexiter being given the difficult task of untangling the UK from the European Union, in her case farming subsidies as the new environment secretary. During the EU referendum campaign, Leadsom said leaving the bloc would not disadvantage farmers. “The UK government will absolutely continue in the short term to provide those subsidies whilst we think about what makes sense,” she said in the Guardian’s EU debate, which keen-eyed observers will note does not guarantee farming subsidies long-term.  Formerly energy minister, Leadsom came into politics after a career in the City, and beat both Gove and Johnson in the Tory leadership contest before dropping out after a torrid weekend in the press over comments she made about motherhood meaning she had a greater stake in the country’s future. Karen Bradley is a Theresa May loyalist who worked with her in the Home Office. The new culture secretary had a steady rise after entering parliament in 2010, becoming a whip and then taking two jobs in the Home Office under May: minister for modern slavery and organised crime, and minister for preventing abuse and exploitation. Born in Staffordshire, she grew up in a pub in Buxton and attended a comprehensive before gaining a maths degree from Imperial College London. She worked as an accountant before becoming a self-employed tax and economics adviser. Bradley worked in the Tory policy unit before the 2005 election and has written thinktank reports on childcare and economics. Sajid Javid was a protege of Osborne who has survived the cull of those closely associated with the old Downing Street. The Muslim son of a bus driver entered parliament in 2010 and was quickly promoted to Osborne’s parliamentary aide. He rose through the ranks of junior ministers in the Treasury before his promotion to culture secretary. As business secretary, Javid was criticised for lacking an industrial policy and his slowfooted response to the Tata steel crisis. But the former banker appears to have been rewarded for backing May after initially supporting Stephen Crabb to be leader, getting the job of communities and local government secretary. Javid is a lifelong Thatcherite and free-marketeer. Born in Rochdale, he went to state schools before studying economics and politics at Exeter University. He went on to work as a senior managing director at Deutsche Bank AG. The first ever secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy, following May’s departmental shift-about, is an experienced hand who has been in government since 2010, most recently as communities secretary. MP for Tunbridge Wells in Kent since 2005, Clark, 48, began at the communities department as planning minister, then took on junior roles at the Treasury and Cabinet Office before becoming universities minister. Born in Middlesbrough, Clark’s father and grandfather were milkmen. He began his political leanings with the SDP, the forerunners to the Lib Dems, and remains something of a moderate Tory, even once singing the praises of Guardian columnist Polly Toynbee, saying in 2006 that she was a better role model for his party than Churchill. Clark went from his local comprehensive to Cambridge University, before taking a PhD in economics at the London School of Economics. His route into politics was relatively traditional: Clark was an adviser to the Tory MP Ian Lang, and head of policy for the Conservatives under Hague, Duncan Smith and Howard, as well as working for the BBC. With energy part of his remit, it might please climate change activists to know that among the achievements he boasts about on his personal website are “landmark policy papers” connected to Britain in the low carbon economy. McLoughlin, one of the longest-serving transport secretaries, left his comprehensive school in Cannock aged 16 and became a farm labourer and a miner. It was a school trip to the House of Commons that apparently first sparked an interest in politics, and his break came when Matthew Parris resigned his seat in 1986 and he was chosen to fight the West Derbyshire seat aged 29.  Previously Cameron’s chief whip, he had been in the transport department since 2012 and managed to keep himself relatively out of the limelight, considering some of the controversies over the past four years, including the west coast mainline franchise, HS2, Heathrow expansion and now the crisis with Southern trains.  The new Conservative party chairman is a strong supporter of HS2, saying the “argument has been won” over the high-speed line. A rare gaffe in his tenure was during the 2015 floods in Cumbria, when he arrived to visit residents in Pooley Bridge and arrived on the wrong side of the collapsed bridge. Cameron’s fixer – his former parliamentary private secretary – has made a huge step up to chief whip. An MP since 2010, Williamson was born in Scarborough but started his career running a pottery in Staffordshire, where he is now an MP.  Well liked by Tory MPs, Williamson is known for his enthusiasm; he was ticked off by Speaker John Bercow shortly after his appointment as Cameron’s PPS for cheering his boss a little too loudly in the House of Commons. A close friend of the former prime minister, Williamson recalled sharing a cup of tea with Cameron on the morning after the EU referendum, before Cameron picked up the phone to Buckingham Palace to tell the Queen he would resign. Williamson called the moment “incredibly emotional”. May has always been his favoured successor, and he acted as her campaign manager for the Tory leadership. Lady Evans, who has been a Conservative peer for less than two years, is being elevated to leader of the House of Lords. The 40-year-old is close to Nick Timothy, May’s policy adviser for five years, who is now following his former boss into Downing Street. Evans worked at the New Schools Network, an education charity linked to free schools, before being replaced by Timothy. Before that she was deputy director of Policy Exchange, the thinktank co-founded by Michael Gove, Nick Boles and Francis Maude, and head of policy at the British Chambers of Commerce.  She has also been a deputy director of the Conservative research department, where she also worked with Timothy. Evans is married to an adviser to Michael Fallon, the defence secretary, and has a degree in social and political sciences from Cambridge University. The new leader of the House of Commons is a man who has waited a long time to enter the cabinet – 24 years, in fact. The 60-year-old first became MP for Aylesbury in 1992, and held a long series of opposition posts, including shadow environment secretary and shadow Northern Ireland secretary, spanning 1999-2010. When the Tory-Lib Dem coalition took office he became Europe minister, also covering Nato, a post he held until his latest promotion. A product of the elite Haberdashers’ Aske’s school in Hertfordshire, Lidington studied history at Cambridge University. In 1979 he led the Sidney Sussex College team to triumph on University Challenge, returning in 2002 as captain when they became the champions of champions. Lidington’s website profile says he has a passion for history, “and thinks that Tudor court politics is a pretty good guide to life in Westminster today”. He began his working life as a BP and then Rio Tinto employee, before becoming an adviser to Douglas Hurd. Northern Ireland secretary has not been an especially high-profile cabinet job since the Good Friday peace deal, but for Brokenshire it could be a tough first cabinet role. One of the key uncertainties of Brexit is likely to be the fate of the Northern Ireland-Republic of Ireland border, how it might be controlled and what impact this might have. Brokenshire is a May loyalist, who spent five years as a junior minister in her Home Office and was among the early backers for her leadership campaign. A grammar school boy from Essex who went on to work in law, he spent his first five years in parliament representing Hornchurch, but had to apply for a series of other seats as it was being abolished, eventually winning Old Bexley and Sidcup. In an initial statement, Brokenshire said a priority was to protect Northern Ireland’s interests amid Brexit. Gauke has experienced one of the more incremental rises to the cabinet. After entering parliament in 2005, since 2010 he has successively held two junior Treasury minister roles – exchequer secretary and financial secretary – and is now chief secretary in the same department. Born in Ipswich, and an avowed fan of the town’s football team, Gauke is a former solicitor who spent eight years as a City lawyer before becoming an MP. In the Treasury, when he deputised for George Osborne it gave birth to the phrase “uncork the Gauke”, which even made it into Hansard after the speaker, John Bercow, used it in May. Mundell’s continued tenure as Scottish secretary was one of the more simple decisions for May, given that since the 2015 election he has been the only Tory MP in the country. A former MSP and a Westminster MP since 2005, Mundell also spent five years as the junior Scotland minister. Cairns remains as Welsh secretary, a post he has filled only since March, when Stephen Crabb was promoted to pensions secretary. A 12-year veteran of the Welsh assembly who has represented Vale of Glamorgan in Westminster since 2010, he is a fluent Welsh speaker who formerly worked in banking. 