 When the dust settles from this blistering contest it will be clearer just why neither of these sides is properly equipped at present to mount a coherent pursuit of the top four. Everton argued vehemently and justifiably they had only been denied a first win here in 22 years by an oversight from an assistant referee almost eight minutes into stoppage time, and Chelsea could point to the character and courage demonstrated by two unlikely if successful pursuits of parity. Their spirit is at least restored. But, as entertaining as this all was, it was a chaotic mess of defensive errors and the latest draw in respective crawls from the division’s bottom half. Guus Hiddink has not lost a game in his second spell in interim charge, but more revealing is the reality he has won only once in the league to date. Everton would normally be celebrating the rewards squeezed from trips to Manchester City and Chelsea within a few days, but they have won only once in nine top-flight games. This was, in effect, a glorious frenzy played out in the obscurity of mid-table. These clubs are used to being more relevant. Hiddink could barely disguise his frustration at the four points shed in successive home games, though it was Everton’s protests that screamed out loudest of all at the end. This match was just shy of its 98th minute, the official’s board having suggested a minimum of only seven, when the ball was launched one last time into the penalty area to be headed up and on first by Branislav Ivanovic and then by Oscar. John Terry, whose own goal had opened the scoring, was the wrong side of the visitors’ back-line when he conjured the backheel that flew beyond Tim Howard. Roberto Martínez’s exasperation briefly centred upon the length of time that had been added on, Chelsea’s bench having appealed to the fourth official Craig Pawson for an extra minute to reflect Everton’s celebrations at edging 3-2 up after the board had been hoisted, but it quickly focused on the real error. “Anger, pure anger,” he offered as his overriding emotion before branding the mistake, by the assistant Peter Kirkup, “unacceptable” and the standard of refereeing “diabolical”. His side had arguably benefited from the non-award of a penalty in the final minute at the Etihad in midweek, something the manager acknowledged in passing, but this still felt cruel. Not that it was unexpected: Bournemouth had claimed a similar 3-3 draw at Everton’s expense back in November in the 98th minute, while Stoke’s 4-3 success at Goodison Park a month later came in stoppage time. This is a recurring theme. Perhaps, for once, it was better to bask in the frenzy into which this contest descended after a sterile opening period. Roman Abramovich, huddled in the corner of his private box up in the West stand, had been left idly fiddling with his mobile phone during that mind-numbing opening, yet the game erupted after the break. It was the visitors who forced the issue, exposing all those familiar frailties in a Chelsea backline who have already shipped more goals this term than they conceded over the entirety of their title-winning campaign. They laboured to deal with Romelu Lukaku’s brawn, and the invention of Ross Barkley, Aaron Lennon and Kevin Mirallas in midfield, with team-mates forever galloping upfield in support. Leighton Baines supplied their first reward, benefiting from Lukaku’s rampaging run and Barkley’s slipped pass, with the left-back’s centre flicking from Terry’s right boot on to his left to dribble agonisingly beyond Thibaut Courtois. Barkley struck a post moments later though it should not have mattered. When Baines was again allowed to deliver unchecked from the left, Mirallas collected, his first touch bypassing a disorientated Mikel John Obi, to spin and belt a second beyond his compatriot. The Belgian winger was excellent here, even if his failure to beat Courtois when clean through as full-time approached ended up feeling pivotal. For a while Chelsea looked forlorn, a fifth home defeat looming large to suggest Hiddink had merely been papering over the cracks. Yet all it took to revive them was Cesc Fàbregas’s hopeful punt over Phil Jagielka, collected by Diego Costa on the sprint as Howard charged out of his goal, with the striker thumping the ball into an empty net. He returned the compliment at his team’s next foray forward, exchanging passes with Fàbregas before the midfielder’s shot flicked off John Stones to wrongfoot Howard. Chelsea’s pursuit of a winner would be blunted by Costa’s departure for hospital with a shin injury that will have the management fretting over the days ahead. Yet their own defensive vulnerability remained. The game had already lurched into added time when Gerard Deulofeu’s corner was nodded back out to the flank by Willian. The delivery second time round arced sumptuously over Courtois and, as Chelsea dithered, Ramiro Funes Mori and Lukaku found themselves unmarked at the far post and eager to convert. It was the defender who guided what he thought was the winner into the net, only for that combination of Terry and Kirkup to ruin Martínez’s afternoon. Life in mid-table can rarely have felt so breathtaking. 