 Rafael Nadal popped into Roland Garros to practise before today's match against Lleyton Hewitt and then nipped upstairs at Philippe Chatrier court to cut his 21st birthday cake of chocolate and raspberry. Meanwhile Roger Federer equalled John McEnroe's run of 11 consecutive straight-sets wins in grand slam events when he defeated Russia's Mikhail Youzhny 7-6, 6-4, 6-4 to reach the quarter-finals. Other than that, nothing much happened in the men's section of the French Open tournament yesterday - or so it seemed, with just about everybody wishing they could fast-forward through the formalities to next Sunday and the prospect of a Federer-Nadal final. For the second year the world No1 arrived in Paris as the holder of the Wimbledon, Australian Open, and US Open titles with everybody willing him to add the world's premier clay-court event to his CV, and now he is just three wins away from joining Rod Laver, Fred Perry, Don Budge, Roy Emerson, and Andre Agassi as the only players to have won all four slams. Youzhny had lost all their previous nine matches, and after briefly leading 2-0 in the opening set went the way of all previous flesh in slams since Nadal beat Federer here last year. "Roger and I can both do almost everything on court," said the Russian, who famously won the Davis Cup for his country in 2002 by turning around a two-set deficit in the final rubber. The trouble for him is that Federer can always do it that little bit better. Youzhny felt that keeping a clear head and remaining patient might have enabled him to inch a little closer to the great man on this occasion, but then most players understandably become befuddled when faced with the quality of shot that Federer produces with such ease. Next up is the Spaniard Tommy Robredo, who advanced courtesy of a fourth-round victory against Italy's Filippo Volandri. "Right now I want to be in peace. I want to enjoy what I've done. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow I will think about the match," said the Spaniard, with all the conviction of a man who, like Youzhny, has never beaten Federer. "It will be a tough match against Tommy. You know, winning Roland Garros doesn't just boil down to beating Nadal," said Federer. But in all probability it will. Against almost any other player Federer can afford a few lapses before pressing his foot on the gas. Nadal, who has yet to lose a five-set match on clay, robs Federer of that focus and calm that is normally intrinsic. That said, Federer may have cast a wary eye on Guillermo Canas's 6-0, 6-4, 6-2 fourth-round win over his fellow Argentinian Juan Monaco. Canas tested positive for a prohibited diuretic in 2005 and served a 15-month suspension before returning late last year. Since then he has twice defeated Federer on the US hard courts in Indian Wells, California and Key Biscayne, Florida. And they could yet meet again in Friday's semi-finals. 