Carwyn Jones says citizens will ‘suffer needless economic harm’ if fate of Wales is left to chance and full access to single market is lost 
Steven Morris 
 Carwyn Jones, the first minister of Wales, has warned that the UK faces being broken up if the four parliaments are not given a final say on any Brexit deal. Jones, who leads Labour in Wales, said his country would not approve any Brexit deal that did not include guaranteed access to the single market. The first minister, who is in the US to strengthen trade links, said he believed the interests of Wales were well served by membership of the UK, that the UK was better and stronger for encompassing Wales, a view he claimed was shared by a large majority of Welsh people. Just arrived in Chicago. Flag already flying ahead of a series of business meetings to show #WalesMeansBusiness pic.twitter.com/YF0h3LF03w He said: “I believe the process of withdrawal must be accompanied by a reformed governance of the UK for the long term. There can be no return to the old constitutional status quo, where the UK was one of the most centralised states in the developed world. But we have to embrace the new reality with fresh constitutional thinking if our British union is to survive the new tensions created by EU exit.  “Unless we take this seriously, nothing – up to and including the break-up of the UK into its component parts – would be inconceivable. Let me emphasise: that is not something I wish to happen. Far from it. But scenarios that seemed little more than political fantasies a few years ago could become plausible if we fail to make the radical changes necessary to put the UK’s constitution on a sustainable footing.” The position of Jeremy Corbyn on access to the single market came under scrutiny this week after a senior Labour party source said the leader wanted to ditch some of the rules, such as when governments could bail out failing companies, which other member countries viewed as integral parts of the single market. Corbyn clarified his position by releasing a statement in which he said he would be “pressing for full access to the European single market” for Britain’s firms. But he added: “There are directives and obligations linked to the single market, such as state aid rules and requirements to liberalise and privatise public services, which we would not want to see as part of a post-Brexit relationship.” Jones said that Wales would suffer economic hardship if it did not have access to the single market. He said: “I believe that the interests of Wales and the UK were best served by remaining in the EU. The people took a different view, albeit by a fairly narrow margin. Of course, I respect the result of the referendum. However, I am absolutely clear that Wales is, and will remain, ‘open for business’.  “I believe it is absolutely vital that when we leave the EU the UK must retain access to the single market. Without that guarantee we risk inflicting needless economic harm on our country, and on our citizens.  “I have absolutely no intention of allowing Wales’ fate to be left to chance, for us to be passive observers in this most momentous of decisions. Wales and the other devolved nations must play a full and active role in the negotiations to leave the EU, to ensure our interests are fully protected.  “If this becomes a two-way dialogue between Brussels and London it will fail. Cardiff, Edinburgh and Belfast must also have seats at the table. Whatever deal is finally negotiated, its acceptance should be subject to the support of the four parliaments that now legislate for the UK.  “I cannot envisage consent being given by Wales unless the UK both secures access to the single market and delivers solid assurances to our citizens from other EU countries.” 