He channelled Laurel and Hardy in a slapstick-style quickstep, painted his face green for a Mask-themed samba and left audiences whooping in horror and delight after his rendition of Gangnam Style. But it was with the cha-cha challenge that Ed Balls finally met his match and on Sunday strutted his dad-dancing on the Strictly stage for the final time – 10 weeks after becoming an unexpected sensation on the BBC show. The group dance, an extra round of competition, was reportedly added to the show to ensure Balls was booted out before the final.  He had previously described the dance as a “nightmare” and, true to form, he was awarded just one point on Saturday night placing him and his partner, Katya Jones, firmly in the final two – and at the mercy of the judges in the dance-off on Sunday. Up against the daytime television favourite Judge Rinder and his parter, Oksana Platero, there could only be one outcome: all four judges voted Balls out, their verdicts hardly a surprise given what they had said before about his first effort on Saturday night, a tongue-in-cheek tango to (I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction.  Taking on the role of a model at a photoshoot he pouted for the camera before reclining on a chaise long, presumably in an effort to emulate tips provided by “the original supermodel” Paul Sculfor during rehearsals. After working the stage with a red rose clenched between his teeth, he handed the flower flamboyantly to one of the judges. But it was not enough to win them over. Awarding him just 23 points and placing him last for the fourth week running, the panel of experts dismissed the effort. The head judge, Len Goodman, told him: “Ed Balls, you are more likely like lottery balls, you never know what’s going to come out next. You are not always the judges’ No 1 choice but 100% you are the people’s champion.” Craig Revel Horwood was less forgiving, telling him he was “completely hunched over” with “splayed hands” and “stomping feet”. Bowing out of the competition, he admitted he was disappointed not to reach the final but insisted his appearance on the show had felt “like a victory, not a defeat”. Speaking after the results, he said: “I think the most important thing for me was always to leave on a high, not on a low. I so enjoyed myself and got so much further than I ever thought I could.” The former shadow chancellor had been dominating the wrong end of the leaderboard for some time but, blind to his low scores, his fans could not get enough and week after week Balls was rescued by the public vote. Some complained he was out-lasting superior dancers but overall he proved to be a ratings hit. Strictly Come Dancing has continued to beat its TV rivals – averaging more than 10 million viewers on Saturday night. A peak of 11.5 million and an average of 10.2 million – a 47.6% share – watched on BBC1, making it the most watched show on TV in the UK, according to the BBC. Even his harshest critic, Revel Horwood, described his performances as “strangely addictive”. What he lacked in fancy footwork and skill he made up for with charisma, humour and spades of enthusiasm. Balls said he would not be hanging up his dancing shoes just yet – vowing to teach his wife, the Labour MP Yvette Cooper, some of his moves. “Yvette is absolutely clear that she wants to learn the charleston, foxtrot and jive so we are definitely going to keep dancing,” he said on Sunday.  Cooper told the Guardian that she was prepared: “Ed’s had a completely amazing run. Katya did a brilliant job. It was a really brave thing to do to throw himself into it with such wild abandon – but Ed never does anything by halves.  “I always knew he would enjoy it, but it’s been great to see how many other people have shared that infectious enjoyment too. People stop me in the street to tell me how much they enjoy watching Ed dance.” She added: “We’re all going to miss it – but I’m now looking forward to learning a few new moves over Christmas.” Balls said he would miss Jones “very much” and said he had no idea what he would do next. The former Labour MP, who is chairman of Norwich City football club, said he would at least be able to watch Norwich’s next game as he had missed three. Balls tweeted after the show: “I’ve had the most fabulous three months on Strictly and this week was definitely the right time for me to go. Thank-you all at bbcstrictly.”  He continued: “To all the BBC producers and back-room staff, the wardrobe, hair and make-up experts and the wonderful band and singers, thank-you. “My fellow bbcstrictly contestants have been such a close-knit and supportive group. Friendships for life have been made. Thank-you.” Balls said he would never have done the show without the encouragement of Cooper, and friend Jeremy Vine. “Good call!” he added.  Former Conservative prime minister David Cameron also tweeted after his one-time Labour adversary departed the show: Well done @edballs - we're very proud of you! #Strictly won't be the same without you. Producers are understood to be relieved to see him leaving at this stage in the series so the focus can return to the dancing rather than the types of comedy performances Balls became known for. Balls had not long lost his seat in the 2015 general election when he signed up to Strictly. It seemed like a surreal move and one he went on to describe as a midlife crisis. But while he lost the competition, he won out in the popularity stakes, suggesting perhaps he was playing smart politics all along. 