 Tim Henman, still struggling to find his very best form and not helped by a significant change in the conditions on his home turf, kept his Wimbledon hopes alive yesterday by finishing off Andre Sa of Brazil in four sets (6-3, 5-7, 6-4, 6-3) to reach the semi- final of the men's singles for the fourth time in his career. There he will meet Lleyton Hewitt of Australia, the No1 seed, whom he has failed to beat in any of their five meetings. Hewitt, who cruised through the first four rounds of the tournament without losing a set, faltered momentarily yesterday. Two sets up against Sjeng Schalken of Holland, he scraped through 7-5 in the fifth.  "Obviously I take a poor record into the match," a realistic Henman said last night of his meeting with the world No1, which is scheduled - along with a return of the bad weather - for today. "I'm going to have to play very, very well. If I play averagely, then I would have thought I'll lose. But, if I raise my level and play the tennis I think I'm capable of, I think I can win."  For Henman it must be a curious experience to arrive at Wimbledon, a place he first visited at the age of five, only to discover, in golden jubilee year and with the draw opening up, that the conditions have turned against him. In yesterday's match it was obvious that a change in the grass, in particular, has reduced the natural advantage he enjoys here.  Two factors are combining to slow the tempo of the game at the All England Club. The first is an increase in the proportion of rye grass in the surface, carried out with the declared intention of improving its durability over the course of a fortnight's intensive play. The other is that the standard ball has been made heavier over the past few years.  This year the ball is bouncing higher and does not come off the surface with the same zip. A colour-blind person attending the centre court yesterday would not have been greatly surprised to be told that the match between Henman and Sa was being contested on clay rather than grass.  Henman resumed yesterday with a lead of one set to love from Wednesday evening's play. He took his first four service games with the loss of only two points but a loose forehand volley at 40-30 in the ninth game seemed to unsettle him. He managed to hold on but missed three set points against Sa's serve in the following game and then conceded his own without much resistance. The Brazilian served out to level the match.  When Sa broke Henman with a wonderful whipped forehand at the start of the third set, the Englishman seemed to be on a downward slide. But he recovered to break back straight away and broke again in the 10th game, taking the set by improvising a blocked forehand that turned into a spectacular winner.  He wrapped up the fourth set with less drama, taking Sa's serve in the second game with perfectly flighted low lobs off both wings and a lovely disguised crosscourt forehand. Deploying a pair of aces to repel Sa's attempt at an immediate riposte, he eased his way past the Brazilian and towards another attempt to reach the Wimbledon final.  "Sa made it very difficult for me," he said. "My serving was a little more aggressive than it has been and it needed to be because it's not quick out there by any stretch of the imagination. It's an element you've got to deal with and it's the same for both players. But perhaps it's had something to do with the way the draw has unfolded."  His current level of play, he said, is "very close" to his best. "You're not going to win at this level playing badly. There are areas that I can improve on but the important thing is that I keep giving myself a chance to have another go."  Yesterday's crowd was comparatively subdued in its encouragement. "That's to be expected, isn't it? I think there was definitely a little bit of anxiety. To start with I felt I was playing very, very well but all of a sudden things changed. And that's when nerves can creep into the crowd."  In Sa's diplomatic view, Henman now has a good chance of going all the way. "He's got the crowd behind him and he's got less pressure now that he's already in the semi- final. I guess he's going to have to improve his serve a little more, because Hewitt has great returns. And he's going to have to play more balls because Hewitt is going to stay back."  Henman said he would watch the tape of Schalken's performance to see where Hewitt could be attacked. "Schalken won a couple of sets, so it will be interesting to see the way he played. But it's more important to worry about my own performance and to concentrate on the things I can control."  · The other semi-final will be between Belgium's Xavier Malisse and the Wimbledon debutant David Nalbandian who became the first Argen tinian to reach this stage at SW19. Both survived five-set marathons - Malisse beating Richard Krajicek 9-7 in the final set and Nalbandian surrendering a two-set lead before defeating Ecuador's Nicolas Lapentti.  