 Big serves age well, so it seems likely that Andy Roddick will be around for some time yet. But whether he can ever win another grand-slam title seems doubtful. It is now more than five years since he strutted his stuff at the US Open, the last American male to win a slam singles title, while his last major final was also at Flushing Meadows in 2006. But the thought of another success keeps him going. "What the hell else am I going to do?" In terms of consistency Roddick cannot be faulted, having spent seven consecutive years in the top 10, while of the current players only Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal have won more ATP Tour titles. And Roddick will never need to check his bank balance before he buys the week's groceries. It has hardly been Roddick's fault that he followed on the coat-tails of multi-slam winners Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi, or that in three of his four slam finals, two at Wimbledon, he had Federer on the other side of the net. When Roddick's whiplash serve first cracked in the tennis circus tops of the world, it was perceived as a weapon that would take him to No1, which briefly it did but only for 13 weeks from November 2003 to February 2004. Then Federer began his 237-week reign before he was usurped by Nadal last year. This year Roddick is trying something new. Having split with Jimmy Connors, he has teamed up with coach Larry Stefanki, who previously worked with Chile's Fernando Gonzalez. The Californian immediately persuaded Roddick that he needed to trim down – he has lost nearly a stone – and then worked on him getting to the net more. This was hardly space shuttle science. The pertinent question was: would it make any difference? The year began well enough for Roddick when he reached the final in Doha even though he was beaten for the sixth time in eight meetings by Andy Murray who, like Federer, has the capacity to brush the American aside with something approaching disdain. Roddick, having slipped down the top 10 to No9, needed a good Australian Open and on a baking hot afternoon was up against the reigning champion, Novak Djokovic, the world No3. There was history here from last year's US Open when Roddick, on being asked about the Serbs' various illnesses and injuries, responded with a litany. "Back and hip. Cramp. Bird flu. Anthrax. SARS. Common cough and cold. You know, he's either quick to call a trainer or he's the most courageous guy of all time." Djokovic was none too pleased and passed comment in front of the New York crowd after defeating Roddick in the quarter-finals. Not for the first time the Serb misjudged his audience and was roundly booed. So there was more than a little irony when Djokovic, trailing 6-7, 6-4, 6-2, 2-1 defaulted against Roddick in the Rod Laver Arena here in Australia. And this was the fourth time he had defaulted during a slam since 2005. Roddick cared little. Another semi-final, his ninth in all, and another step closer to that elusive second major. 