Is it ever OK to joke about rape? Adrienne Truscott thinks so. Since 2013, the comedian has been satirizing and skewering rape culture via her award-winning show Asking For It, which has been praised for its sophisticated treatment of a topic that so many comics fail to confront. Now, Truscott is coming back to New York City for a special election-themed production, promising to sling “pussy-flavored politics, protest and punchlines at the President Elect”. Truscott is no stranger to American audiences but things have changed in the last three years. Here, she tells us what the difference is between a good rape joke and a bad one – and why a Trump presidency means her work is more important than ever. Rape is uncomfortable for many people to talk about – never mind laugh at – and yet your show has remained incredibly popular for years. Why do you think that is? When I first made it, I imagined that if the project succeeded it might hit a nerve and be a kind of zeitgeisty thing for six months to a year. I toured as much as I could and what I found was that it just kept being relevant. Every time I sort of thought, “OK I’ll move on”, the world would hand me some golden nugget of material like Bill Cosby or Brock Turner, which as a comic was exciting and as a woman was depressing. I just kept having fresh stuff to include in my show. And now it just handed me the beauty of all beauties: Potus. Suddenly I was like, Jesus Christ, we are looking at rape culture at the executive level. The stakes have definitely changed. Is there a way to still make fun of rape culture when, as you say, the president-elect has openly bragged about sexual assault? With my show it was never about being funny. It’s about satire and emotional release and truth. I’m interested in using comedy to speak the truths in my show to a broader group of people than might otherwise hear them. If I wanted to just be an activist, I think I would find myself speaking to the same group of people over and over again. My interest is to reach people who don’t agree with me right away. I have faith in comedy’s ability to stand in front of a mixed group of people and speak truths that they weren’t intending to hear. I never ever make fun of the act of rape and I never make fun of the experience of a victim of rape How you draw the line between what is good material for your show and what isn’t? In my show I never ever make fun of the act of rape and I never make fun of the experience of a victim of rape. Satire gets underneath the prevailing logic that goes unquestioned and points out how ridiculous – to the point of hilarity – some of those notions are. I have a whole bit in our show from the last election about the “legitimate rape” controversy. The notion that somebody can “shut that whole thing down” if they’re raped so they don’t get pregnant is farcical. I can make fun of the fact that that person has the gall to run for office in this country when, if that’s the level of their understanding, I wouldn’t give them the grocery list. But I understand that that comedy right now feels different because they didn’t just get the grocery list, they got the keys to the Oval Office. But not all comedians can make rape jokes work. Why do some bomb? Bad rape jokes are lazy. Let me explain. A joke can be evaluated based on three elements: the writing/structure, personal taste and context – but even then, it’s complicated. A good example of how complex “rating” a joke can be is Jimmy Carr’s infamous rape joke: “What do nine out of 10 people enjoy? Gang rape.” I find the joke super offensive, but that’s my personal taste. I also think the way it is written and constructed is brilliant – concise and surprising; it uses a generic intro with a shocking punchline. As far as context, it kills in a room of “his audiences”, but he may be harder-pressed to make it work at a women’s studies course at Sarah Lawrence College. On the other hand, there’s Daniel Tosh’s joke: “I replaced my sister’s pepper spray with silly string. Well, she got raped.” For me, this one is super lazy. There’s no twist or element of surprise to the punchline really – in a way that is the twist but I don’t think it works. And again, does this joke work in any room? Or just a room of his (mostly) male fans?Part of what makes lazy rape jokes so annoying to me – where the victim is the punchline and it’s coming from a straight guy to an audience of other mostly straight guys – is that the comic is so confident that his material is “edgy” – when in fact that’s the last thing it is.  Do you think there’s a difference when a man jokes about rape v a woman doing it?  One thing I find interesting, as it pertains to “context” is point of view – or the presumed relationship of the comedian to the material and how that is gendered. I am constantly asked by journalists and others – either directly or in a coded way – if there’s a “reason” I made this show – ie, is that “reason” that I’ve been raped – because I’m a woman making rape jokes (granted a whole show of rape jokes) I must have a first-hand experience with it. I’ve never heard of a male comedian who makes rape jokes because they have a reason for making them – and several have a lot of them in their arsenal. That discrepancy speaks to the comedic license they are given to joke about anything.  What do you think about how comics defend their rape jokes?I think their defense of “it’s just words” reveals their laziness. Comedy is all about words so of course they are significant and powerful. It’s interesting, since the election how easily people who are devastated by the election of Trump say we can’t “normalize” what he says – but heaven forbid someone suggests that a genre of comedy could be considered contributing to the “normalizing” of rape. I think comedy is at it’s most genius when it is denormalizing things we lazily think of as normal – which can make comedy a crucial tool in the coming years of this ungodly administration. Would you invite Trump to see your show? I would love for Trump to come and see my show. I tweeted in the wake of him encouraging a Hamilton boycott – which by the way, was so ridiculous considering you can’t get tickets for Hamilton anyway – that there were tickets available if he and Pence wanted to brush up on rape culture before inauguration. I don’t expect to see them there, but I feel like I have to keep speaking truth to power, now more than ever. Artistic commentary feels like it’s in peril. And so for performers like me, it’s time to decide you’re going to stay in the game and keep doing what you do. What can people expect from Asking For It? I think that my show will probably be darker this time around. I felt like in doing my show over the last few years, we were winning. It felt like we had let the genie out of the bottle. I don’t feel like the genie is going back in there, but I do feel like someone else just got their hands on the bottle and they wanna put the lid on. I can’t pretend that my show is gonna make sure that doesn’t happen. But I know if I stop doing my show right now it would feel like I was retreating from the frontlines.  This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 