Being an oil producer used to mean dealing with luxury problems for many members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec). Not anymore. With the oil price still bumping along sustained lows, many of those countries are in crisis. Opec will gather for the third time this year on Monday to discuss crude-oil market conditions. But whether the cartel can finally reach a consensus about what to do remains questionable. Overproduction of oil, powered by a desire to see off a threat from the US shale industry, has sent oil prices into a prolonged slump and caused economic turmoil for many of Opec’s members. Attempts by some member-states such as Venezuela, suffering the worst economic crisis in its history, to persuade Opec to return to its traditional role of ensuring price stability versus seeking market share were ignored, despite the policy’s economic toll. All member-states are feeling the impact of lower oil prices to some degree, with poorer countries like Venezuela affected to a much greater degree than wealthier countries like Saudi Arabia. Opec is slated to meet informally in Algiers, and hopes rose last week following comments from Opec’s secretary general, Mohammed Barkindo, that this gathering could be formalized if the group’s ministers reach an agreement. Scott Roberts, co-head of the high yield team for Invesco Fixed Income with a focus on energy, said he’s doubtful that anything meaningful will occur. “I think unfortunately this is an opportunity for photo ops, handshakes and hugs,” Roberts said. Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank, said Opec called this confab because of the persistent low prices seen during the past few months.  Since topping out in June at just over $50 a barrel for both Brent and West Texas Intermediate crude oil, prices swooned to near $40 barrel in early August, days before the meeting’s announcement. While that’s well above the year’s low of sub-$30 for both types of oil, prices are far under where they were in late 2014 when Opec embarked on its goal to seek market share. Brent crude lost $1.76, or 3.7%, on Friday as traders worried about the Opec meeting, ending the day at $45.89 a barrel. Comments about a possible production freeze by Opec’s dominant member, Saudi Arabia, and conciliatory talk from Russia, a key non-Opec producer, also gave oil markets a temporary lift last month on hopes that perhaps something might be done, Hansen and Roberts said. Roberts said the soothing words were a smart strategy and a “cheap option” by the Saudis to support prices, but he wonders whether the kingdom didn’t sacrifice any long-term credibility if nothing comes to pass.  After all, Hansen noted, it was the Saudis who scuttled a possible deal in April when Opec held an extraordinary meeting in Doha. “What will be interesting this time around will be to watch the rhetoric of the Saudis,” he said. Jay Hatfield, co-founder and president of Infrastructure Capital Advisors and portfolio manager of the InfraCap Active MLP exchange-traded fund, said if an agreement to freeze production is announced at this meeting, people need to look beyond the simple headlines. That’s because Opec is already overproducing about 1.5m barrels a day above its stated daily quota of 31.5m barrels.  “There’s a huge difference between maintaining production and cutting it,” Hatfield said.  Except for a few countries like Libya and Nigeria, which have reduced production because of internal strife, many Opec producers are nearing maximum production, they said. So agreeing to a freeze at current high levels won’t change the fact that Opec is the main reason why there’s still an oversupply of oil globally. That overproduction means there’s no need to tap the bulging inventories around the world, either. And without an agreement from non-Opec producers such as Russia, Opec likely won’t budge because it doesn’t want to lose market share, they said. Unless Opec meaningfully cuts production, oil prices aren’t likely to move out of their current $40 to $50 range this year. It’s possible that values may stay at the lower end of that level in the short-term because demand is looking shaky. Although US gasoline use was a record this year, Rob Haworth, senior investment strategist at US Bank Wealth Management, said it still wasn’t enough to draw down inventories.  Those inventories won’t come down anytime soon, either. Haworth, Roberts and Hatfield said the US is about to enter the “shoulder season” where people don’t drive as much as they do in the summer and the weather is mild enough to not require heating oil.  Then there’s the International Energy Agency’s reduced forecast for global oil demand for 2017, citing economic uncertainty, which may mean the imbalance between supply and demand will likely continue for now.  For oil supply and demand to balance, Haworth said global production will need to drop enough that users start to tap the world’s voluminous inventories, which he believes won’t occur until 2017. Roberts said the earliest that may happen is spring 2017. If so, oil prices may finally rise above $50, he said. But not by much. “That doesn’t mean we go back to $100 oil. Even if it’s in the $55 to $60 range, that’s an improvement,” Roberts said. 