Home secretary tells Daily Telegraph she embraces Ken Clarke’s assessment of her as she sets out stall for Tory leadership 
Damien Gayle 
 British politics needs more “bloody difficult women”, Theresa May, the favourite to be next prime minister, has said in an interview setting out her stall for the Conservative leadership. The home secretary, who is the preferred choice for 199 out of 330 Conservative MPs to be the next leader of their party, and the country, told the Daily Telegraph she embraced Ken Clarke’s assessment of her. The Telegraph, read by one in three Tory members, who will vote in the coming months to appoint their new leader, published its interview with May as it came out strongly in support of her bid to be prime minister.  Referring to Clarke’s “bloody difficult woman” remark, the paper’s leader comment said: “We have had one running the country before; we need another now.” After coming first in two elimination votes by Tory MPs, May now faces a head-to-head contest against Andrea Leadsom, the energy minister and leading Brexit campaigner, in a vote by party members. She is widely expected to win, with backing from the Telegraph, the Times and the Sun likely to help. May said: “My whole philosophy is about doing, not talking. I’ve always championed women in politics. We just get stuck in. Politics isn’t a game, the decisions we make affect people’s lives and that is something we must all keep to the forefront of our minds.” Pledging to create a Brexit department, headed by a Brexit campaigner, May said: “It’s very important that we recognise that Brexit is going to happen, but that we cannot let it consume us. There are a lot of other things the government has to do as well.” However, she does not pretend to be delighted by the referendum outcome: “The British people have spoken and there will be a different future for the UK, different but a brighter, more optimistic future. We may have to go through some difficult times to get there, but get there we will.” May did not comment on the status of EU migrants in a post-leave Britain, after her Labour shadow, Andy Burnham, criticised her for failing to guarantee they would be able to stay after the country leaves the EU.  Like David Cameron, the outgoing prime minister, May has merely insisted that there would be no “immediate change” to EU migrants’ status, leaving the door open to a change in situation after talks with Brussels.  Burnham orchestrated a Labour motion in support of migrants that passed comfortably in the Commons this week, after picking up the support of Vote Leave figurehead Boris Johnson. The government abstained on the vote.  After the motion passed, Burnham said: “The House of Commons has sent an overwhelming message of support tonight to EU nationals that they are valued members of our society and welcome to stay. “Today’s debate exposed the weakness of the government’s position. MPs firmly rejected Theresa May’s decision to link the status of EU nationals with British nationals living elsewhere in Europe. “Speaker after speaker said it could only strengthen the status of British nationals abroad if the UK made a clear and quick decision about the status of EU nationals here.” 