Pressure group calls for ‘clause one socialists’ to shape party if Jeremy Corbyn wins fresh mandate in leadership election 
Heather Stewart Political editor 
 Progress, the centrist Labour pressure group, is urging MPs critical of Jeremy Corbyn’s leadership to stay in the party and fight for “clause one socialism” if he wins a fresh mandate this weekend. Corbyn is widely thought to be on course for victory when the results are announced in Liverpool on Saturday. His challenger, Owen Smith, has repeatedly said a Corbyn win could split the party, while the Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron, has made it clear that he would welcome disillusioned Labour MPs. A growing number of Labour MPs who have been critical of the leader have said they would remain in the party and try to wrest back control of policymaking from Corbyn and his leftwing supporters. A strongly worded editorial in the latest edition of Progress magazine urges Labour supporters to stay and fight. It accuses John McDonnell, Corbyn’s campaign chair, who has previously called Progress hard-right, of seeking “control of the party machine,” rather than strengthening Labour’s hand in parliament. “At its founding, the party’s intention was clearly spelled out for the world to see in the very first paragraph of the constitution: to ‘maintain in parliament … a political Labour party’. If we stay, if we fight, and if our ideas and organisation improve, ‘clause one socialists’ will win the day,” it says. The editorial calls for a “legacy group” from Smith’s campaign to be created to champion soft-left ideas in parliament and for Progress supporters, who are on the right of the party, to wage a war of ideas. “It will not be easy – if it were, it would have been done already – but the alternative is to concede more than 110 years of history, and the potential to do good once again, to a cabal more at home on a march with the Alliance for Workers’ Liberty than on doorsteps across the land. This is our party and we are going nowhere,” it says.  The AWL is one of the hard-left groups highlighted by Labour’s deputy leader, Tom Watson, when he spoke of “Trotskyist entryism” into the party. Separately, the former foreign secretary David Miliband, who lost the 2010 Labour leadership election to his brother, Ed, has said Corbyn and his supporters have driven Labour into an electoral “dead end”. In an article in the New Statesman, Miliband warns against “the critique that everyone who disagrees with Jeremy Corbyn is in fact a closet Tory – or ‘Tory lite’,” accusing Corbyn’s supporters of failing to accept that government entails compromise and instead embracing “the sectarianism that leads to the dead end of permanent opposition”. His language echoes that of the prominent backbencher Chuka Umunna, who used an article in the i newspaper to urge his colleagues not to wave the “white flag” in the battle for Labour. “We cannot allow bullies to take over our movement and force out any part of the Labour tradition, all strands of which have the right to a voice whoever is the leader. The Labour family is bigger, better and stronger than that,” he writes. The Progress editorial also urges its supporters to back MPs who fear they could come under pressure from what it calls “local Momentum bullies”. Momentum, the grassroots group set up to support Corbyn’s leadership and led by the veteran party campaigner Jon Lansman, insists that it aims to democratise Labour and help it become a mass social movement. However, Momentum has been accused of calling for the deselection of MPs critical of Corbyn’s leadership. 