Burberry is to cut jobs and reduce its product range by up to one-fifth in an attempt to save at least £100m a year, following a 10% fall in profit. Christopher Bailey, the chief creative officer of the British clothing brand, who also became its chief executive in 2014, said “change is not a choice” as the market for luxury goods faces challenging trading conditions.  The company, famous for trench coats, said it expected profit to come in towards the bottom of market forecasts in the year to March 2017 amid investment in staff training and IT, and a sharp slowdown in China, the retailer’s biggest market.  Burberry has been affected by a decline in the number of Chinese tourists visiting its stores in Europe and weak demand in Hong Kong after a change to visa rules. Pre-tax profits fell by 10% to £421m in the year to 31 March, after underlying revenue for the year declined by 1% to £2.5bn. Bailey, who was previously the label’s creative director, said: “2015/16 was a challenging year for our industry shaped by macro trends including volatile financial markets and geopolitical tensions, as well as changes to dynamics of luxury consumption, not least in Hong Kong.” However, in a show of confidence about the future, the company revealed a 5% increase to its full-year dividend and a £150m share buyback starting next year. Burberry is aiming to cut annual costs by £100m by 2019, about 10% of its non-fixed expenses, by simplifying the company’s operational processes, cutting jobs and slimming down the range of products.  Burberry would not say where job reductions would come or how many people would be affected, but Bailey said he wanted to eliminate duplication between central, regional and local operations. The company will also bring down the number of products it sells as he puts the entire range under the single Burberry brand this autumn. Previously, catwalk items went under the Prorsum label, while the rest of the collection was split between the London and Brit lines. Staff in stores will be retrained to improve service, partly using IT to give them more information about customers. Bailey said Burberry had the opportunity to improve sales per square foot to a level “more in line with our peers” by changing the way its stores operated and improving customer loyalty. “People want more distinct experiences, newness, more authenticity and a personal relationship with the brands they love,” Bailey said. He acknowledged that Burberry needed to bring in more expertise, particularly in retail and digital, to help improve performance. Bailey declined to comment on rumours that he is seeking a right-hand man or woman, but said: “We acknowledge that there’s a lot going on in the company and there’s great change ... We have identified skills we need to beef up in the organisation.” He said Burberry was committed to growth and pledged that the brand would increase sales by more than the 2% to 3% expected for the luxury industry as a whole over the next few years. The group said that after successfully relaunching its trench coat and scarves over the past couple of years, it would next focus on bags, a category that is growing faster than clothing and an area of weakness for Burberry compared with its peers. 