Andrew Roth 
 Sir Anthony Grant, who has died aged 91, was a Conservative MP for 33 years from 1964, first for Harrow Central and then for Cambridgeshire SW. He gave up his safe seat in 1997 in dismay at what he saw as a decline in parliament’s qualities, and in retirement continued to bemoan the drop in moral standards set by Britain’s “old middle classes”. As vice-chairman of the Conservative party from 1974 until 1976, he was attacked as “Heath’s hatchet man” when he cleared out what he called the “dead wood” and encouraged the candidacy of aspirants (who included John Major) from a wider variety of backgrounds. With the arrival of Margaret Thatcher as party leader in 1975, his future was blighted because, according to her acolyte Alan Clark, he “always hated her and the values she stood for”. He compensated for her hostility by winning the admiration of “wet” Tory colleagues and others as a pro-European and opponent of the “get-rich-quick money shufflers”. Grant was born in Surbiton, south-west London, into the Conservative, Anglican household of Arthur Grant, a mathematics and physics professor, and his wife, Florence (nee Webb). He attended St Paul’s school, west London, where he was mildly rebellious. At 18, in 1943, he joined the 3rd Dragoon Guards, serving in the far east for three years. He was demobbed as a captain. He went to Brasenose College, Oxford, but ignored politics at university. Instead, he took the outside route, becoming national chairman of the Young Conservatives in 1948. He was admitted as a solicitor in 1952, in 1959 he fought the hopeless London seat of Hayes and Harlington, and then in 1964 was elected in Harrow Central. In his first term he made his mark during James Callaghan’s 1965 budget by trying to persuade the chancellor to make things easier for small investors. He also introduced a clients’ money (accounts) bill in 1967 to oblige accountants, estate agents and travel agents to keep their clients’ money in separate accounts. After Harold Wilson strengthened his parliamentary majority in 1966, Grant joined the Tory whips’ office under “marvellous” chief whip Willie Whitelaw, where the next four years were “my happiest time in parliament”. Ted Heath’s unexpected 1970 victory resulted in Grant becoming undersecretary at the Board of Trade which, within months, became the Department of Trade and Industry. In 1972, he was switched to the subordinate Ministry for Industrial Development. In February 1974, Heath, now in opposition, made him vice-chairman of the party, in charge of vetting candidates. Thatcher kept him on for a year after she took over in 1975, “but I don’t think I hit it off with her, so ... I went into exile to the Council of Europe and the Western European Union”. Grant recalled that, when, in 1983, the Boundary Commission abolished Harrow Central, “I was like a man who steps out of his spaceship and finds he can’t get back to Earth”. He refused to squeeze his pro-European neighbour in Harrow East, Hugh Dykes, out of his seat and in 1983 was knighted at what was thought to be the end of 19 years’ service. Then the Tory selectors in Cambridgeshire SW rejected their candidate, and Grant was selected. He became a sudden convert to the Thatcherite opening-up of hospital services to private cleaning companies, including Pritchard’s, whose consultant he had become in 1978. In 1984 he was the sponsor of a private bill permitting the reorganisation of Barclays Bank, to which he was a consultant. In 1985 Peter Luff, an employee of Good Relations, a PR company to which Grant was a consultant, gave evidence to an inquiry into lobbyists by the House of Commons select committee on members’ interests, and told them that he had been given a Commons entry pass and accredited as Grant’s researcher. Grant spent much of his time on select committees. He also steered a private member’s bill, to reform the rules for treasure trove, on to the statute book as the Treasure Act 1996. That year, he announced he would not stand again, adding: “If I were a young man today, I wouldn’t touch this place with a bargepole. Reform is too slow. The chamber is increasingly irrelevant and we have surrendered abjectly to press and media. They know what is going on before we do. The camaraderie has gone and a meanness has crept in.” MPs had deteriorated into “professional politicians”, he said, “obsessed with party dogma and with the sole desire to be the next prime minister but three”. His wife, Sonia (nee Landen), whom he married in 1953, died in 2009. He is survived by their son and daughter. • John Anthony Grant, politician and solicitor, born 29 May 1925; died 9 October 2016 • Andrew Roth died in 2010 