The comedian Stan Laurel saw himself as a geordie after growing up in north-east England. Now his home town is celebrating his life with a new play 
Dominic Smith 
 Shortly before he died, Stan Laurel reportedly told his nurse that he’d rather be skiing. When she expressed surprise Laurel was a skier, he replied: “I’m not. But I’d rather be doing that than this!” Now, 50 years after his death, a special event is being held on Tyneside to celebrate Laurel’s comedy genius and his little-known lifelong connection with the region. Between the ages of five and 15, Laurel lived in North Shields with his theatrical family (his father was a celebrated performer as well as running local theatres), before leaving for Glasgow in 1905 and eventually reaching Hollywood. Stan Laurel tribute day is being held in Tynemouth’s Grand Hotel. Organised by North Tyneside council, Whitley Bay film festival and local theatre company Cloud Nine, the event will feature a talk from Danny Lawrence, author of The Making of Stan Laurel: Echoes of a British Boyhood, as well as excerpts from a new play about Laurel’s emotional homecoming to the region at the height of his fame. There will also be screenings of two of his films with Oliver Hardy. “I don’t think there’s any doubt that he thought of [North Shields] as his home town,” says Lawrence. “He may not have been born in North Shields but he lived there for 10 formative years.” According to Lawrence, the experience even influenced Laurel’s Hollywood films. The Music Box (1932), which won him and Hardy an Oscar, centres around Stan and Ollie carrying a piano up steep stairs reminiscent of those leading up to Laurel’s North Shields home, where he would have witnessed people lugging up heavy furniture. Recurring themes of sailors and fish throughout the duo’s films may also have been influenced by his childhood by the port. Laurel’s personal relationships will also be celebrated in the tribute. A prolific letter-writer, Laurel corresponded with childhood friends long after he left the area, and Lawrence says he thought of it as the happiest time of his life. Lawrence recounts a tale of Laurel visiting a sick friend on one of his return visits to the town when he and Hardy toured Britain. “Ollie wasn’t with him as he apparently had a sore throat. Stan joked with his friend that ‘he can’t cope with the weather here – he’s not a geordie like us’”. Excerpts from Laurel and Hardy in Tynemouth, the unfinished final play of the late playwright Tom Hadaway, will also be performed at the Grand Hotel. It is being completed by Hadaway’s daughter Pauline, and looks at the pair’s visit to the north-east in 1932, at the height of their popularity. She says the story centres around the relationships Laurel formed there. “What my dad started to do was to think about what those links would be – those personal, intimate connections with the area. Aside from the historical fact of growing up there – who did he know, who did he leave behind, was it his home?” Laurel is also being feted beyond Tyneside this year. The Laurel and Hardy Museum in Ulverston, Cumbria (the town where he was born), will host a special event in June. • Stan Laurel Tribute Day, 23 February at the Grand Hotel in Tynemouth. 