 The United Arab Emirates aren’t putting the Socceroos on a pedestal ahead of their World Cup qualifier, believing they deserve a place at the 2018 tournament. The two countries clash in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday night (1.30am Wednesday morning AEST) in a meeting of early Asian pacesetters on the road to Russia. The UAE claimed a stunning 2-1 away-day win over Japan but are firm underdogs for this meeting, a position reinforced by Socceroos coach Ange Postecoglou who claimed they would be “a bit fearful” of the Asian champions Australia. Speaking on Monday, UAE boss Mahdi Ali wasn’t biting back on that accusation. “This is his opinion and I respect that ... but UAE has played a long time with this group,” he said. “We’ve worked for a long time to create an identity for this team and I think we have an identity. “We know what we need from the game tomorrow and we will see, Inshallah, how it will go.” The Gulf nation caught the attention of the footballing world with their success in Tokyo, and Ali said it was his belief that they would beat favourites Australia and Japan to one of the two World Cup places on offer from the six-team group. “Our first time to qualify to a World Cup was 1990 (and) since that date UAE has been working very hard to qualify for the second time,” he said. “This time we have a very good chance and we have a very good team. I think UAE deserve to qualify to the World Cup.” He downplayed suggestions that the stifling weather would be a boost to the home team. “That’s not an advantage, the weather will be for both teams,” he said. “The team is very well prepared. Who has the will to win in the game and is fighting in the game, that gives the result in the end.” Meanwhile, Postecoglou will give captain Mile Jedinak until the very last minute to prove his fitness, following an injury that could see defender Matthew Spiranovic make a long-awaited return. The Australian captain hasn’t trained since touching down in Abu Dhabi on Saturday, and is in severe doubt for the match. The camp hasn’t given details of the injury, but Jedinak described it as a knock from Thursday night’s 2-0 win over Iraq. Postecoglou has until two hours before kickoff to submit his squad for the UAE match and told reporters he would take the decision down to the wire. “We’ll give him every chance to recover and see whether he’s available on game day,” he said. “When we’re in camp we understand things even happen on game day where we need to change the line up. That’s happened in the past and no one’s even known about it. “We’re hoping he’ll be ok but if he’s not then we’ll be able to bring in somebody else to do the job.” Mark Milligan is the obvious candidate to fill Jedinak’s boots in defensive midfield, shifting forward after he was deployed usefully in defence against Iraq. That would clear the way for Spiranovic to take up a place in the heart of defence, the role he played at the 2014 World Cup and 2015 Asian Cup. The 28-year-old said he was eager to put a Socceroos shirt back on, having last played for the national team in last October’s 2-0 loss to Jordan. “It’s great to be here fit and healthy,” he said. Postecoglou – who counts selection surprises as his stock-in-trade – could also throw Jackson Irvine into Jedinak’s role, or deploy Aaron Mooy or Massimo Luongo deeper. All three play as sitting midfielders for their English Championship clubs. 