 Novak Djokovic's decision to wear an £80 pair of Nike trainers on Centre Court on Monday has shaken his five-year-old sponsorship arrangement with Adidas. The popular No3 seed is the German clothing giant's highest-profile figure at Wimbledon - the top two seeds, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, both wear Nike - but became the first tennis player in its 30-year association with the sport to jettison its product in favour of its most bitter rival. After suffering a straight-sets defeat to Nadal in the final of the grass-court Queen's tournament in the build-up to Wimbledon, Djokovic informed Adidas that he considered himself to have been put at a disadvantage by his shoes. Although the Serb has been closely involved in testing a new pair of trainers that Adidas will roll out for the 2009 Championships, there was too little time for the company to rush out a shoe for this year. But given his value to the company, the 21-year-old was allowed to turn out at the most-watched tennis tournament in the world on Monday in a pair of Nike Air Max trainers. "We have a long-term relationship and we work with our athletes and tennis players," said an Adidas spokesman. All Nike branding was deleted but the American company would no doubt consider it an enormous coup, particularly after Andy Murray, who had been wearing Adidas out of choice rather than contractual obligation, announced on Monday that he too was changing to Nike. The BBC's lukewarm attitude to the Lawn Tennis Association's tour events at Eastbourne, Queen's and Birmingham will have a knock-on effect for the governing body's hopes of maximising the value of its sponsorship rights. Two months after the BBC moved fast to clinch the rights for Wimbledon for the five years to 2014 - an action which angered rival broadcasters who had hoped to enter into an open-tender negotiation - the LTA's offering remains on the table. It wants to have all the tournaments on a single channel and says it is in "active negotiations" with the BBC alone. But the decision to break Stella Artois' 30-year-old sponsorship contract for the Queen's tournament in favour of a single, umbrella sponsor for all its activities may prove costly. The LTA can offer guaranteed terrestrial broadcasting for only another year, perhaps explaining why an LTA spokeswoman said yesterday that it "doesn't expect" any updates on signing a sponsor this year. The LTA is crediting the former Belgium Davis Cup captain, Steven Martens, with the more canny performances of its women players in the opening two days of Wimbledon. Martens stepped in to the role of player director little more than a fortnight before the Championships began but it has paid immediate dividends with Anne Keothavong and Elena Baltacha making it through to the second round. But it was the 19-year-old British No5 Naomi Cavaday's clever tactics in her defeat against the reigning champion, Venus Williams, that were most noteworthy, and credited to Martens' introduction of increased technical analysis of players. Videos of opponents are studied to give an idea of possible weaknesses, which even Williams apparently betrayed yesterday. The All England Club's coyness over its finances might be explained by the fact that it has no idea what long-term interest rate it will be exposed to. The floating-rate loan taken out with HSBC last August by the All England Lawn Tennis Ground plc, a joint venture of the club and the LTA, can be revealed to be £75m. The rate it tracks has in fact fallen from the 6.23% that prevailed on the day the loan was taken out - there is no indication whether the company must pay a financing premium on top of that rate - but the All England Club admits it "will become exposed to interest-rate risk", which it hopes to manage by securing a fixed-rate deal. For that to be realised in the current financial climate the club may have to call on all the goodwill it can muster from its sponsor, HSBC. Chelsea's chief executive, Peter Kenyon, will take the stand at the London employment tribunal today to explain the circumstances behind his club's unfair dismissal of Paul Smith, the man who fulfilled Kenyon's role on an interim basis while the latter worked out his gardening leave with Manchester United. Smith is pursuing a £500,000 settlement from Chelsea, who have admitted the charge of unfair dismissal but found themselves in the hearing after their severance offer was rejected. Smith was in the witness stand himself yesterday, describing Kenyon as "dodgy and diving". Smith said he had sold his Aston Martin to fund his legal fees and would also take his claim to the high court, alleging breach of contract. matt.scott@ 