Lyn Gardner 
 Owen McCafferty’s latest, Death of a Comedian, directed by Steve Marmion, is at the Lyric in Belfast. In Manchester, Contact’s festival of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender work, including performance, comedy and spoken word, continues all week. Matthew Floyd Jones, of Frisky and Mannish, enlists the help of Dickie Beau for Psychodermabrasion, a one-person “monodrama” at Jackson’s Lane in London, delivered complete with very unflattering lighting. You’re lucky if you live near Warwick arts centre, where Third Angel and Mala Voadora consider our past, present and future in The Paradise Project. The darkly funny Fleabag heads into the Bike Shed in Exeter tonight before moving on to Salisbury Playhouse on Thursday. It’s good to see Wales Millennium Centre producing, as they hand over the roof void for an all-female version of Richard III. Mark Thomas’ terrific tale of activism and betrayal, Cuckooed, is at the Tron until Thursday. Slung Low and Dep Arts’ interactive adventure for young audiences, Emergency Story Penguin, begins a tour at the Arc in Stockton. Hannah Jane Walker and Chris Thorpe’s I Wish I Was Lonely, about being disconnected in a connected world, is at Lincoln performing arts centre tonight before moving to the Dukes in Lancaster on Friday. It is definite must-see. Vault festival continues with Yve Blake’s Lie Collector, inspired by stories shared by thousands of strangers, joining the lineup. The unsettling and layered drone drama, Grounded, is at Norwich Playhouse tonight. Saunders Lewis’ famed Welsh classic Siwan gets an English language version, The Royal Bed, at the Riverfront arts centre in Newport from tonight. Secret Theatre returns to the Lyric Hammersmith in London with a new piece: A Stab in the Dark, Joel Horwood’s farce set in Afghanistan. Sanitise, a story about feeling dirty, heads into the Tron in Glasgow. The dance-theatre piece The Typist tells the story of the child refugees of the Spanish civil war, and combines testimony and flamenco dance – it’s at the Arches in Glasgow, then heads on tour. There’s more from Third Angel at Warwick arts centre, where The Life and Loves of a Nobody considers the gap between our dreams and reality. David Leveaux’s revival of Closer by Patrick Marber begins at London’s Donmar Warehouse. Chris Dobrowolski connects communism and consumerism in All Roads Lead to Rome at the Spring in Havant tonight. You can catch Talawa’s all-black staging of Arthur Miller’s All My Sons at the New Wolsey in Ipswich from tonight. David Hayman’s revival of the John Byrne classic The Slab Boys starts at the Citizens in Glasgow.  This weekend, all roads lead to Bristol for the international In Between Time festival, which features work from UK artists including Action Hero, Lucy Hutson and Lone Twin, and international artists such as Fujiko Nakaya, who will be making the city’s Pero’s bridge disappear behind a changing veil of fog. In London, Juliet Stevenson returns to the Young Vic in Beckett’s Happy Days, directed by Natalie Abrahami. Vesta Tilley, the cross-dressing music-hall star, is Britain’s Best Recruiting Sergeant in Joy Wilkinson’s play at the Unicorn in London. At West Yorkshire Playhouse, Boi Boi is Dead is set in the wake of the death of a playboy jazz musician in Zimbabwe. Laura Wade’s Posh, inspired by those Bullingdon Club boys, is revived at Nottingham Playhouse. And New Perspectives venture out on tour from Derby theatre with Athol Fugard’s Playland testing the limits of forgiveness. 