Chairman says investigation into scuffle between two MEPs likely to delay election to replace Diane James 
Peter Walker Political correspondent 
 Ukip may not get a new leader until after Christmas, its chairman has said, as an investigation over the scuffle between two party MEPs is likely to delay the election to replace Diane James. Paul Oakden said there was no “need to panic”, before a meeting on Monday of the party’s national executive committee to set a timetable for the contest. He told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme that the election, which is supposed to take six weeks under party rules, would almost certainly have to wait for a decision on the fates of Steven Woolfe and Mike Hookem. The pair are being investigated over an alleged altercation at the European parliament in Strasbourg. Woolfe, previously the leading candidate to replace James, spent three days in hospital after collapsing following the fracas. Hookem has denied punching his fellow MEP, and insisted the incident was sparked by Woolfe, who appeared angered after colleagues questioned him over revelations that he had considered joining the Conservative party. Woolfe has said his injuries were consistent with a blow. Oakden said there had already been some initial questioning of those present about what he called “one small incident”. “The investigation will certainly conclude before the close of nominations for the leadership campaign,” he said, insisting there was no rush to replace James, who quit after 18 days, claiming a lack of internal support.  “We are going to be taking our time. We are going to be doing it in a very calm and collected fashion to make sure that we get the right results,” he said. “There is no need to rush. There isn’t any need to panic ourselves into getting a new leader into place quickly.”  Oakden said it was up to Woolfe whether he would continue with his leadership bid.  “We are all delighted that Steven is recovering, although, obviously, he is still feeling somewhat under the weather after what appears to have been a very serious medical incident. So, only he can say whether he is in full fitness and ready to fight a leadership campaign.”  Woolfe missed out on the previous leadership election after filing his nomination papers 17 minutes late. Last week a series of Ukip MEPs and other senior party figures said they believed Woolfe was now badly compromised as a potential leader, because of the altercation and his flirtation with the Tories. Many of them said they hoped the party’s deputy leader, Paul Nuttall, would stand instead. Nuttall has yet to say whether he will compete. Other likely candidates include Suzanne Evans, who was unable to stand in the last contest after being suspended from the party following a falling out with Nigel Farage, Ukip’s former and now interim leader. Oakden told Today he saw no impediments to Evans standing this time. The party also faces key elections to its national executive committee at the end of November. As well as three of the previous dozen members reaching the end of their term, a death and resignations mean that seven spots are up for grabs. 