Apple’s smaller tablet is about the size of a book and gains a Touch ID fingerprint sensor, gold colour and extra storage option – but that’s it 
 Apple released a new iPad mini alongside its iPad Air 2, but rather than a better processor and thinner body, it only gained a Touch ID fingerprint sensor and new gold colour. Is it worth £319? The iPad mini has been the tablet of choice for many people looking for the iPad experience but smaller and cheaper. It was first introduced in 2012, essentially 2011’s iPad 2 squeezed into a new thinner iPad design with slim bezels around the screen and a flat back, which the iPad Air eventually adopted in 2013. Last year the iPad mini was upgraded, getting a much faster processor and a “retina” screen. This year the upgrades have been minimal. You would be hard-pressed to see the difference between last year’s iPad mini 2 and the new mini 3. What’s new? A small metal ring around the home button, which now hides the Touch ID fingerprint sensor and a lick of gold paint are the only differences. The rest of the outside of the device is exactly the same as last year’s mini, which isn’t exactly a bad thing. The screen is super crisp, colour accurate and bright – not overly saturated like some small tablets can be. Like the iPad Air 2, the screen has a 4:3 ratio, making it squarer than most video content designed for our wider 16:9 ratio widescreen televisions. Inevitably that means large black bars top and bottom of video and the picture itself being much smaller than the 7.9in screen would suggest. They are annoying, as are the black bars left and right of comics and graphic novels. How much the square screen will annoy will rest on how much video is consumed on the tablet, usually a key job for a tablet these days. The size, weight and build of the mini 3 are excellent – there’s no give or flex in the body at all. Holding it one-handed is relatively easy, although how much of a novel could be read in one sitting without resting will depend on the size of biceps – eventually the weight does wear. The changes to the outside of the mini 3 are mirrored on the inside: it has the exact same processor, RAM, graphics and motion coprocessor as last years mini and the iPhone 5S. The mini 3 has the A7 processor that is no slow coach, but is not as powerful as the A8 line that drives the iPad Air 2 and iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. It shows that Apple’s smaller, cheaper tablet is a second class citizen compared to the rest of Apple’s new 2014 models. In day-to-day usage the tablet performs fine, with minimal lag or stutter only visible when loading large, data-heavy applications such as Comixology. It runs exactly the same as the iPad mini 2, maintaining its solid all-day battery life, which like the iPad Air 2 also consumes very little battery in standby even when connected to the internet. The iPad mini 3 ships running iOS 8.1, Apple’s latest software. Owners of earlier iPads (back to the iPad 2) can download and install it for free. On the surface iOS 8 looks the same as iOS 7, but most of the changes have been made under the hood. As with the iPad Air 2, the new software enhances the connections between apps, allowing third-party keyboards among other functions such as applying photo filters from other apps without leaving the primary app. Sharing between apps and services has also been upgraded to be more in line with Android, and Apple’s payment service Apple Pay will allow users in the US to buy and pay for goods and services online using the Touch ID sensor. • iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepened The fingerprint sensor under the home button works well for unlocking the tablet and authorising purchases from the App Store and iTunes, but it can also be used in third-party apps. Evernote and Dropbox, for instance, can be secured with Touch ID keeping prying eyes out unless they have your fingerprint or the four-digit passcode those apps allow. The five-megapixel camera on the back is solid for a tablet, but is not a patch on most good smartphone cameras – it will do for the occasional snap but will not replace a point-and-shoot camera. The 1.2-megapixel camera on the front works well for video calling and selfies, but won’t produce a picture worth printing – if anyone actually still prints photos. The Wi-Fi-only iPad mini 3 costs £319, £399 and £479 for 16, 64 and 128GB storage respectively. The 4G version costs £100 more per storage variant, at £419, £499 and £579 respectively. The iPad mini 3 is a solid smaller tablet. It is well-built, feels great in the hand and the Touch ID sensor is useful. But it is seriously undermined by last year’s iPad mini 2 – which now starts at £239, though available only in 16GB and 32GB versions; the mini 3 comes in 16, 64 and 128GB versions. The Touch ID sensor is useful, but a hard sell for £80 more when everything else is the same. Samsung’s widescreen 8.4in Galaxy Tab S, which set a new bar for screen quality that the iPad mini 3 doesn’t quite reach, is also worth considering. But the iPad mini 3 is the smaller iPad to buy if 64GB or greater storage is required. Otherwise the mini 2 is just as good – or, if price is the key consideration, 2012’s iPad mini is still on sale, for £199 for a 16GB version only. Pros: compact, good screen, fingerprint sensor, good battery life, solid build Cons: barely any change from last year, expensive, no expandable storage, square screen • Apple iPad Air 2 review: Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough? • Apple iPad mini review: the iPad experience shrunk into a smaller, lighter body • Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor • Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a new benchmark for screen quality • Tesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the money • Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet review roundup: powerful, but meh • Surface 2 review: Microsoft makes progress but can’t escape Windows RT • Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet 