At times of great stress, bankers tend to reach for the ciggies – and that’s precisely what the highly embattled Deutsche Bank seems to have done. The German group was revealed as a lead financial adviser on British American Tobacco’s planned $47bn takeover of Reynolds American last week – its biggest deal of the year and a useful smokescreen just before the bank’s results statement on Thursday. Still, those results will be dominated by one major question – the financial health or otherwise of the bank – following the US Justice Department’s request that Deutsche pony up $14bn to settle all the beastly things it did with mortgage-backed securities. That demand caused quite a lot of gasping in Frankfurt, meaning boss John Cryan has been attempting to calm investors’ nerves with claims he expects to settle on a smaller figure. All of which might depend on Deutsche’s ability to charm Americans, which brings us to a second worry. The US makes up around 25% of Deutsche’s revenues, according to Macquarie, and last week Wall Street banks announced results that were surprisingly good across the board. Did the US banks take advantage of their German rival’s woes and poach all its business? Or might Deutsche have also benefited from an industry-wide stimulant that has resulted in a general high? By Thursday we should know. When Sergio Bucher was unveiled as the new Debenhams chief exec in May, it’s reasonable to assume he believed he’d signed up to a different job. In that carefree time before the Brexit vote, the UK might have felt like a welcoming place for a Swiss-Spaniard to relocate to, and the referendum has made life even more tricky for the boss of the already embattled department store. Pressure on the pound in the aftermath of the vote has hurt Debenhams’ share price as – like many clothing retailers – it often buys in dollars and sells in pounds. Meanwhile, as Bucher prepares for what should be a routine City debut at the group’s results this week, investors have also begun fretting about the health of the retailer’s pension scheme. Morgan Stanley analyst Geoff Ruddell warned last week: “Recent movements in bond yields lead us to believe that the scheme’s liabilities may have increased by more than £300m over the past 12 months and that, as a result, the company may disclose a net pension deficit of more than £200m.” That missive came on the day Bucher started work – and thumped the shares. Welcome to Blighty. William Hill chairman Gareth Davis has never publicly said that enjoys the work of Samuel Beckett, but there is a touch of Waiting for Godot about the bookmaker at present. The firm’s management is biding its time in anticipation of something big happening, and following the recent collapse of a pair of mergers, the parallels grow stronger: it was once said of Beckett’s two-act play that “nothing happens – twice”. The problem with this inactivity is fairly obvious. Its rivals have not been sitting around (Ladbrokes and Coral have merged, as have Betfair and Paddy Power) while the uncertainties over a William Hill deal have spooked three candidates for the vacant chief exec role. The search for a new boss continues this week, but it’s not a total long shot that we’ll be watching a year-long performance of waiting for a CEO. In fact, the bookmaker hasn’t managed to appointed a chief exec it actually wanted to hire since David Harding 16 years ago. When Harding left, Hills spent a year looking for his replacement, despite eventual successor, Ralph Topping, being a company lifer. Topping’s retirement was delayed by a couple of expensive moves to keep him in post, despite his replacement James Henderson joining the firm in 1985. Developing. Slowly. 