 I voted for Jeremy Corbyn, but with a potent sense of dread. The problems with Corbyn’s leadership aren’t the invention of a hostile media. In my younger, redder days, I believed that qualities of “competence” and “credibility” were some sort of elitist ploy, words invented by Tories to discredit any leftwing political project. It isn’t just Corbyn’s gaffe-strewn tenure that convinced me otherwise, but the collapse of John McDonnell’s economic advisory committee. And yet, for all this, the anti-Corbyn opposition, “the 172” – Labour MPs who voted they had no confidence in the party leader – have no positive alternative, least of all Owen Smith, a man who spends lonely nights worrying that his choice of coffee mug isn’t proletarian enough. Broad swaths of the parliamentary Labour party (PLP) failed to realise that the attempt to unseat Corbyn in the wake of the EU referendum felt like a direct attack on the membership. No one could reasonably expect the bulk of party members to rally around a candidate standing because the electorate couldn’t be trusted to vote properly the first time. It gave members the feeling that the contest was one between rank-and-file and party elites; or youthful optimism and jaded cynicism. This only solidified pro-Corbyn opinion among potential waverers. So if you can’t remove Corbyn through official channels, the only option left is to persuade members with reasoned discussion, right? Wrong, apparently. A better strategy is to wage a low-intensity war against anyone of vaguely leftish sympathies within the party. Re-tweeted the Greens? The procedures committee will show you the door. This sort of antagonism is proven electoral poison. As someone long on the left of the party, I would have been amenable to an alternative candidate who engaged with me on an intellectual level. The problem with this isn’t that it hurts my feelings – nothing compared with the abuse decent MPs have received at the hands of some on the left – but that it exposes the intellectual poverty on the right of the party. I voted for Corbyn the first time round because I feared that Labour, and social democracy, faced an existential threat. Pasok, PSOE, Labour in Scotland: traditional socialist parties in Europe, shorn of their traditional support bases seemed vulnerable to populists on left and right. No one on the right of the party has properly addressed this, instead offering a rehashed vision of ’97 . I felt Labour needed a way of tapping into popular anti-elitism with a progressive, socially just programme, rather than one that made weak, mug-based overtures to controlling immigration. With no one on the Labour right or left offering a credible alternative to Corbyn, the only choice we have is to cooperate, to find grounds for compromise with the bulk of the PLP, and to work for a Labour victory in 2020. I can’t help but feel a twinge of sadness that this, the greatest opportunity for real political change in my lifetime, is all being squandered. Alex Hacillo is 24, and joined the Labour party in Liverpool in 2010 Jeremy Corbyn’s opponents now have a long time to answer two big questions. The first is: how can they sign up centrist members who could oust Corbyn in another challenge, or after a 2020 election loss? They have twice boasted they wereable to do this before the 2015 and 2016 contests – and twice miserably failed. The party is becoming less and less attractive a prospect for anyone with a decent perspective on life and interesting hobbies to give up their spare time and money to attend vitriolic branch meetings. Indeed, it’s not just a question of finding new members, but trying to stem the exodus of existing ones. The second question concerns how to heal the divide between centrists and soft left. Moderates are offended by the way Owen Smith and his soft left comrades have explicitly blamed the Blairites for the turmoil in the party, suggesting that things were fine until they started whingeing. Both sides need to put aside their personal gripes with one another, otherwise the walk back from the wilderness will take even longer as everyone bickers about the directions. Isabel Hardman is assistant editor of the Spectator Labour is having a moment of reckoning. The party has to remember why it exists, and re-engage with that mission powerfully. Britain is facing some of the most serious questions it has ever faced, and now more than ever we need political leaders brave enough and creative enough to offer solutions that inspire the best in us. Our future outside the EU, our role as a member of the international community, the future of science and technology, building a sustainable and robust economy, creating fulfilling careers, supporting and empowering those with illnesses and disabilities, making education the foundation block of our society, being a fit and healthy society. Those are the issues that the Labour party could and should be addressing. Instead the rightwing of the party and their friends in the commentariat are attempting to exert their will on the rest using any and all means. This must end. Now. The country is crying out for the kind of vision and values that set a road map to a better future. It’s time for this anti-democratic and toxic coup to end, and for Labour to return to its core mission: to lead a country that works for the many, not for the few. Kerry-Anne Mendoza is editor of the Canary Running into a pregnant Glyptapanteles wasp is rarely good news for a caterpillar. The wasp, after drilling an ovipositor into its hapless victim, will lay its eggs inside the caterpillar’s body; the larvae, when they hatch, will then devour their host’s bodily fluids. Taking great care not to damage its vital organs, they will also mind-control it, so that the caterpillar, even after the larvae have erupted through its exoskeleton, continues to defend them as they pupate. Eventually, the wasps hatch. The caterpillar, meanwhile, is left to die. Such is the fate that Jeremy Corbyn’s re-election as leader seems to portend for the Labour party. The hard left faction that has seized control of Britain’s main progressive party has every prospect now of devouring it inside out. That this is bad news for anyone who wants to see a Labour government goes without saying. Among the numerous reasons why the incompetent, incurious and pharisaical Corbyn will never be prime minister, the most copper-bottomed is surely this: that British voters will never elect as their leader a sympathiser with the IRA. Corbyn himself can blame this on false consciousness all he likes. If he genuinely cared about securing a Labour victory at the next election, he would have stood down long ago. The reason that he has not, I can only assume, is because - like the zealot he is - he believes in a higher cause. Bad for Labour, and bad for those who would best be served by a Labour government, Corbyn’s re-election is bad as well for the very fabric of our parliamentary democracy. Tom Holland is a journalist and author The one standout moment in this tiresome leadership campaign was when Owen Smith asked Jeremy Corbyn to name how many seats Labour would need to win back in order to form a majority government. Corbyn got the answer wrong. It was perhaps symptomatic of the fact that Corbyn may offer a genuine alternative to Labour members sick of centrism but he does not currently offer a credible alternative to the electorate. The British state is about to undergo its biggest overhaul since 1945; this requires an opposition that does not simply oppose but effectively scrutinises. In order to do this, Labour needs unity, ideas, organisation and competence; all of which this leadership is completely lacking. Corbyn now has three options: purge the party of dissenters, push for unity between MPs and party members, or alternatively try to find agreement on key issues (at least on Labour’s Brexit policy). The first option seems depressingly likely, the second depressingly unlikely, and the third the most sensible. A separate Labour party in Scotland also presents problems as well as opportunities. So, what now for Labour centrists? They may choose to sit and wait for Corbyn to fail. But by then it might be too late and a split inevitable. Collaboration with Corbynistas might be too hard to stomach and impossible to maintain. One thing that centrists could do is stop blaming Corbyn for everything and take a long look in the mirror. The foundations of leftwing centrism have completely crumbled and fresh thinking is required. What should be at the forefront of their minds for both MPs and members is the future of the Labour voter. Ukip will redouble its efforts in Labour heartlands and, with the possible resurgence of the Lib Dems and the strength of the SNP, Labour MPs of all shades might find there is no longer a loyal electorate on which they can draw. Eliza Filby is the author of God and Mrs Thatcher Countless conversations in communities of all kinds in the past year tell me that Observer columnist Barbara Ellen last week spoke for many who react to the current Labour leadership, and some of its followership, with an intention to leave the party and even stop voting Labour. I plead with them to do neither. I urge them to understand that the only people pleased – and strengthened – by their departure would be those who provoked them, in despair and anguish, to go. I ask them not to give the Labour party to such people but to stay in the party and to keep on voting Labour. Despite the political tunnel vision and self-indulgence of the current leadership, Labour is still, to borrow Ellen’s words, the “political entity conceived to provide parliamentary representation (and therefore protection) for the most overlooked and vulnerable people in society”; it still needs broad support to secure elected power at local and national levels; it is still the only “political force” that can credibly offer the social justice essential for a productive and equitable country. In a previous existential crisis – in the 1930s – the Labour party declared that “the victory of ideals must be organised”. It is an abiding, inescapable truth. Many democratic socialists would, like me, appeal to all to stay, to organise, and to uphold the reality that only a Labour party that again makes a wide electoral appeal can feasibly earn the parliamentary power to combat the huge injustices and inefficiencies of gross and growing inequality, underinvestment and underperformance. That isn’t an easy course. But it offers more substance and hope than a dream that desertion and some tactical voting can bring coherent, effective, progressive change. Neil Kinnock is a former leader of the Labour party For me, the fundamental question that faces the Labour party in the coming years would have been the same whoever won the leadership election. How is it possible to do any kind of leftwing politics in a globalised world where governments are up against supranational forces beyond their control? President François Hollande and Syriza are very different kinds of leftists, but both are the latest to discover that when it comes to fair taxes, ending austerity or tackling inequality, idealism and public support aren’t enough. When tax rises were on the table in France, the French rich rapidly became the Belgian rich (or in Gerard Depardieu’s case, the Russian rich). Greece’s creditors met demands for less austerity by imposing more. Corporations everywhere treat tax demands and regulations as advisory only. We’ve been hearing about globalisation, digitalisation and automation for decades, but the left still hasn’t found a politics to match its challenges. With the leadership election now over, Labour should set about finding one, because if it doesn’t this time there may be no way back for the party if voters in this country decide it hasn’t got any answers. Dreda Say Mitchell is an award-winning crime novelist Between us we have 100 years on the electoral register, voting Labour every time. We’ve had long careers in inner city schools, and are firm believers in social justice. We’ve seen Labour go through tough times, but have never felt so despondent. The role of a leader in any sphere is to inspire confidence and bring people together, yet we have never seen the party more divided. We feel that the leadership is focused on communicating with the new membership but that as traditional Labour voters – who no longer attend rallies and are not on social media – we are not informed, our views are not valued and those who democratically represent our beliefs are not listened to. Jeremy Corbyn says he does not condone abuse, yet the fear of harassment appears rife in the party. On the issue of Brexit, when he could have made a significant impact early in his leadership, he seemed invisible. In the end, leadership is judged by its impact and, after a year in post, the state of the party is a woeful indictment. This leaves us politically homeless. The party that has been our natural home and should be the strongest opposition to rightwing policy is no more. We look to someone out there to fill the void. Sue and Jennie are former teachers 