 "Everyone was making a big deal out of the calendar grand slam, but I'm pretty happy with the way the year had gone. I mean, it's hard enough to win one grand slam. It's not a disappointment at all. It would have been nice but . . . oh, well."  When Jennifer Capriati wrapped up the first set of yesterday's semi-final against Justine Henin in 21 minutes there seemed little doubt that she would enter tomorrow's final with the chance of adding the Wimbledon title to the Australian and French Opens she had already won this year. But the force that had been with her since Melbourne suddenly and dramatically turned about face. As transformations go, it was total, Henin winning 2-6, 6-4, 6-2. If the turnaround could be traced, then it was down to the medical time out Henin called at 1-2 down in the second set to get treatment for an extremely large and extremely painful blister. Arguably, it gave her time to regroup mentally, while robbing Capriati of the tremendous momentum she had built up over the first 11 games.  "She came out swinging," said Capriati, whose loss ended a run of 19 grand slam wins. "All of a sudden she was on her game, hitting everything well and not making any mistakes. There was not much I could do. You know, it was like a different player."  There is something Laveresque about the Henin backhand, a wonderfully natural stroke and a joy to watch in these days of double-fisted sloggers. "I never worked on it," said the 19-year-old Belgian, who may have never seen the late Tommy Cooper but described her backhand as being "just like that".  Capriati tried to avoid it, and then to play to it, hoping upon hope it would break down under pressure. No such luck. "It wasn't only her backhand; it was everything."  Certainly for such a relatively small woman Henin packs a considerable wallop. She is fractionally smaller than Martina Hingis, the world No1, but what wouldn't Hingis give for the power of Henin's serve. True, it is not in the same high-velocity class as the Williams sisters or Davenport, but it is a significant weapon.  But perhaps Henin's greatest attribute is her tennis brain. She is Hingis with attitude, and capable of coping with the power game.  After the time out Henin held her serve and then broke Capriati for the first time, forcing the American back with a wonderfully accurate lob, and then finishing the point off with a smash. At the time this seemed no more than a glitch in Capriati's progress, indeed she immediately broke back herself to level the second set score at 3-3.  At this point a player with less mental strength than Henin might have folded. "Maybe I thought it was going to too easy. Maybe I just lost my concentration," Capriati said. "For a set and a half I was just blowing her off the court, and then I wasn't doing that any more." She began to rush, growing ever more impatient with herself, particularly when she lost the second set. "I was mad. I couldn't believe I'd lost it."  So at the very moment Capriati needed to clear her mind, she remained in turmoil, twice losing her serve to love at the start of the final set to go 3-0 down. In three games she won only one point, virtually gifting the match to the Belgian, who had complained after her quarter-final of feeling tired. In fact, it was Capriati, whose three-set quarter-final against Serena Williams had been tense and dramatic, who appeared jaded.  At 4-1 a shower briefly held up Henin's victory charge, but only delayed the inevitable. Capriati was disappointed but not bowed. "You know it's funny. I was such an early starter, a prodigy, but really I feel like a late bloomer."  By any standards, she has had a wonderful year. 