The texts began arriving on customers’ phones over the weekend: Tesco Bank had spotted unusual activity on a significant number of current accounts, and was getting in touch with customers to alert them. But that wasn’t enough to prevent £2.5m being siphoned out of about 9,000 accounts, and transferred to criminals whose identities and locations remain a mystery. The damage to the bank’s reputation may be significant – but more significant still is that the attack is only the latest, and presently most visible, example of a rising tide of onslaughts against online banking, which seek to exploit any weak spot in web-facing computer systems and their users. The hackers’ motives are straightforward. As the wild west bank robber Willie Sutton explained when asked to explain his motivation: “That’s where the money is.” And experts warn that 2016, which has already seen an audacious attempt to steal £763m ($951m) electronically from Bangladesh’s central bank in the spring, is the precursor for much worse to come. “Because a lot of economies aren’t in good shape, you’ll see more and more skilled computing people being out of work, and turning to the dark side where they work for criminals,” says Ilia Kolochenko, chief executive of High-Tech Bridge, a web security company. “And at the same time you’ve got a lot of companies trying to optimise their costs, and preferring to save money on the cyber side. It’s hard to predict how successful and how large the scale will be, but I’m pretty sure it will get worse.” The Bangladesh attack occurred in February, when hackers broke into the Swift network, the international financial transfer information system, and told the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to make 32 transactions totalling $951m to accounts around the world. Although only $101m, in two transactions, was paid out, a total of $63m has not been recovered. Swift has since warned banks to update their software. It is highly unlikely that the same group was behind the Tesco Bank attack; the amounts involved – and number of accounts – are so different as to imply separate operations. However, this suggests that various gangs are trying to break into banks and accounts online. There have certainly been a number of online raids – some involving big money. In 2013, online security company Kaspersky said that as much as $900m had been stolen from 100 banks after their internal systems were infected with malware. And in late 2015, the UK’s National Crime Agency investigated the theft of £20m from several accounts, enabled by malware which had infiltrated customers’ PCs. There are suspicions that Tesco Bank’s security model was more vulnerable to compromise than it should have been: once logged in to a current account, a user could set up a transfer to a current account in another bank without having to get an SMS confirmation. The question, still unanswered, is how the accounts were targeted. It is possible that the hackers found a weakness in the back-office systems – possibly from a current or former employee, suggests Kolochenko. Tesco Bank declined to discuss whether there are any patterns in the accounts that were targeted: “This is a criminal matter, and so we are constrained in what we can say,” a spokesman said. He declined to say whether any criminals had been identified or what lines of investigation were being pursued. Andrew Bailey, chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), told MPs last week that “there are elements of this [attack] that look unprecedented”, but did not elucidate. What parts are unprecedented? The fraud was far from the largest conducted on a UK bank; in September, the23-year-old head of a fraud ring, Feezan Hameed, was jailed for 11 years, after his gang stole £113m from British banks. They fooled people into thinking they were talking to their bank, and got them to hand over their internet details – which he would then use to get access to their accounts. Only £47m has been recovered. So if the FCA’s Bailey is worried, it must be about the online nature and the scale of the attack – not its value. And this is the concern: if criminals can compromise 9,000 accounts in a matter of hours during a weekend and siphon off an average of £280 from each one before being spotted, what’s to prevent it being done to an even greater number of accounts for greater amounts of money, and leaving banks to pick up the pieces? What’s to stop it being done to any bank every night? The idea of banks building up a false sense of security before a disaster might sound familiar. Simon Moores, an independent consultant on security, likens the situation now to the US financial market in 2006/7, when complacency over the inherent risks of mortgage-based products was compounded by ratings agencies which had an interest in certifying sketchy financial instruments as safe. “It’s just like The Big Short,” Moores says, referring to the film and book about the lead-up to the financial collapse, which was forecast by only a few. “The computer security industry is worth £30bn, but it doesn’t work any more. Having a box to protect your bank website or business doesn’t work. But nobody is prepared to accept the fact.” Banks don’t like discussing hacks; more than 100 banks are reckoned to have had up to $900m stolen in late 2013, according to security company Kaspersky. The hackers compromised internal computers and used video feeds for months to learn daily routines. Moores points out that 2015 was a record year for cyber-attacks globally – but that’s only because 2016 hasn’t finished yet. Malware – which tries to attack PCs or corporate systems – is on the rise: “There are now thought to be more than 500 million worms, Trojans and other viruses in circulation, and reportedly every day there’s another 1.25 million ‘polymorphic’ threats [which change as they are copied between machines, making identification harder].” For banks, the attraction of online banking is clear: it doesn’t require expensive offices in high streets, or the employment of thousands of tellers who might be vulnerable to criminals through blackmail or greed. Instead, it relies on computers, and a relatively small and highly trained (and well-paid) staff, while the customer-support function normally done by tellers can be outsourced to call centres that have little more access than ordinary customers to the banks’ databases. For the customer, online banking should mean greater convenience – it can be done anywhere and any time you can get an internet connection – and reliability, since the challenges (such as passwords and memorable words or phrases) you face to log on successfully are more complex than a simple four-digit number at a cash machine. But for both, inserting a computer between the customer and the bank has opened up new risks from malware targeting web browsers, computers and mobile phones. Browsers, software and computers – both the customers’ and the banks’ – can have mysterious bugs which allow access to hackers and leave almost no trace; there is a constant need for bug-finding and updates to defeat them. Even while banks strengthen their software, though, the weak link can lie outside. One of the biggest problems for online banking was the malware Zeus, which defeated many antivirus packages. First seen in 2007, it lurked in the background of Windows computers infected via email attachments or web pages and captured logon passwords and account numbers. By 2010, it had infected nearly 4m PCs. In April two men – a 27-year-old Russian called Aleksandr Andreevich Panin and an Algerian accomplice, Hamza Bendelladj, were given prison sentences totalling more than 24 years for their role in creating and running a “botnet” of infected computers called SpyEye, which relied on Zeus and had stolen more than $100m from US banks and, by extension, their customers. By 2011, there were versions of Zeus that infected smartphones running on Google’s Android, putting banking apps at risk. So far though, banks appear to have managed to stay ahead in the arms race; the growth in the use of smartphones may actually have helped, because their security model is generally better than PCs, holding apps in deeper “silos”. Customers have often borne the cost of the skirmishes, though. Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at Cambridge University’s computer security group, has clashed with the UK’s financial instutions for more than a decade, first over weaknesses in cash-machine security and more recently over banks’ reluctance to accept the cost of online fraud, while they reap the profits of lower online overheads. Customers who have been defrauded often have to fight for their refunds, Anderson says. Many of those whose money was stolen by Hameed are still trying to get their money back, he points out. “As long as UK banks don’t have to bear the cost of fraud, they won’t have an incentive to improve their security,” he says. He notes that the Tesco case – in which refunds were immediate – was a rare and welcome exception. He notes too, that being able to transfer money more quickly has brought significant problems. “In the old days, if you wanted to send £1,000 to your aunt in Australia, it would cost you £30 and take four days and you might have to visit the branch. Now it can be set up and sent in seconds. If you’re a fraud victim, you can’t stop it.” It might sound strange for a computer security expert to bemoan faster payments. But the problem is more one of imperfect authentication: clearly, something failed at Tesco. Because thousands of customers were affected by the attack, Tesco paid up; but when a single person or business is hit by Zeus or another variant, banks often dispute it. Anderson says: “They shouldn’t design systems for perfect humans who can recall dozens of passwords. They should design for people as they are, faults and all.” Moores says the threat to the users, and the banks, will only increase. “The attacks are going to get automated, and they’re going to recruit machine learning – that stuff’s not just for Google.” Banks don’t like to talk about online hacking, especially when it involves customer accounts. But here are some that we know of. 2013 As many as 100 banks worldwide are discovered to have been infiltrated by malware – sent as email attachments to bank employees – which sent back video and other data from internal networks. That helped hackers to steal a total of $900m, according to the Kaspersky Lab, which claims it had gone on for almost two years. Neither the amounts stolen nor the details have been confirmed. December 2014 About 730,000 login details for wealthy clients of Morgan Stanley are offered for sale online, after being stolen by an employee, 30-year-old Galen Marsh, between 2011 and 2014. Morgan Stanley says it found no evidence that customers lost any money. Marsh pleaded guilty in September 2015, receiving 36 months’ probation. Morgan Stanley was fined $1m. Meanwhile, hackers in Russia and Ukraine break into the internal networks at financial institutions in their countries and infect ATMs with malware that would give them 50 times the amount they seemed to be taking out. The group is reckoned to have gained access by buying access to PCs already infected by opportunistic hackers using weaknesses in Microsoft Office and Windows. January 2015 Hackers acquire codes from Swift, the international financial network which enables transfers between banks, to get access to a bank in Ecuador, Banco del Austro, and transfer $12m out of it via Wells Fargo to banks in Hong Kong, Los Angeles and Dubai. The bank sues Wells Fargo but does not tell Swift, which only learns of the incident via a lawsuit in May 2016. April 2015 Ryanair confirms that £3.3m has been stolen from it by a fraudulent transfer via a Chinese bank. Neither the bank nor Ryanair offers any information about how the fraud happened. Late 2015 The UK’s National Crime Agency investigates a series of bank frauds enabled by malware called Dridex, which infects PCs and harvests online banking details from users. British accounts are reckoned to have had £20m taken from them and paid to accounts in eastern Europe. February 2016 $81m is stolen from Bangladesh’s central bank; investigators link the malware used to break into the systems to that used to penetrate Sony Pictures in 2014 by a hacking group called Lazarus. The hackers had sought to transfer $1bn, but a fault in their code halted the transaction early. May 2016 Swift says a Vietnamese bank has been hacked, but doesn’t disclose whether any money was lost, or which bank is involved. It urges its members, numbering more than 9,000, to keep their software up to date. June 2016 $10m is stolen from a bank in Ukraine after the Swift system is exploited using a method similar to that used against the Bangladesh central bank in February. November 2016 Tesco Bank says £2.5m has been stolen over the weekend of 5-6 November from the accounts of about 9,000 customers, out of a total of 136,000. All have been refunded; questions remain about how the transfers were made. Tesco could face a substantial fine from regulators. 