 Juan Carlos, the King of Spain, reached down from the front of the President's Box and clasped the new Spanish "King of Clay". Rafael Nadal, who celebrated his 19th birthday on Friday when he defeated the world No1 Roger Federer to reach the French Open final, yesterday won the title at his first attempt, defeating the Argentinian Mariano Puerta 6-7, 6-3, 6-1, 7-5. It may have been expected but it certainly did not come easy. Puerta, unseeded and largely unheralded before the tournament, put up a fantastic fight and was three times within a point of taking the match into a fifth set. He simply would not go away and it needed all Nadal's formidable powers of endurance and thrilling shot-making finally to bring the Argentinian to a halt after nearly three-and-half hours of spellbinding tennis.  "I played with my best head and my best tennis. He played unbelievably and there were times when I thought I might lose," said Nadal, who, after being congratulated by his King, climbed up into the seats to embrace his family, throwing his huge arms around the neck of his uncle, Toni, who also coaches him.  This has been an extraordinary year for the youngster, who has risen from just outside the top 50 to being the world's No3 this morning behind Federer and Lleyton Hewitt of Australia. Yesterday's win was his 24th consecutive victory on clay, a run which has seen him win the prestigious Monte Carlo and Italian Open titles and arrive at the gates of Roland Garros a fortnight ago as the favourite, even though he had never played in the tournament before. He let nobody down.  With his cut-off piratical trousers, sleeveless shirts and long black hair "Rafa" is instantly recognisable and has given the men's game a huge boost. Federer, with four majors to his name, is clearly the more accomplished player at the moment but Nadal's youthful exuberance and remarkable tactical authority for one so young make for an exhilarating mix.  Spaniards have now won the French Open title on six occasions since 1993 and four times in the last six years. Sergi Bruguera, twice, Carlos Moya, Albert Costa and Juan Carlos Ferrero all had their special qualities but in terms of charisma Nadal leaves them all for dead. Here is a player, who hails from the holiday island of Mallorca, with whom youngsters can associate. He might just have stepped off the beach.  Nadal is the first man to win the French Open on debut since Sweden's Mats Wilander in 1982 and the first teenager in the men's game to win a major since Pete Sampras won the US Open in 1990, also at 19. He is in exalted company.  The first set between these two left-handers had just about everything, including the dramatic moment when, with Nadal leading 3-1 and 40-15 in the first set, Puerta walked slowly over to his chair and took time to have his right thigh heavily strapped.  Nadal tried not to pay too much attention, though he could have been forgiven for wondering if his first major might be handed to him inside half an hour. He was disabused of any such notions almost instantly: Puerta saved two game points, then broke Nadal's serve to level at 3-3.  Everyone was looking for the slightest sign that Puerta might be slowing up. There was none. He continued to hit with enormous venom and many of his shots might have been outright winners against any player other than Nadal, whose defensive play is breathtaking. Pricelessly he also has the ability to switch into attack in an instant. It made for a wonderful opening, with Puerta taking a tie-break of intense drama 8-6.  All eyes were on the young man, who for the first time in the tournament was a set down. There were moments when the seemingly unstoppable nature of Puerta's attacking play cast shadows of doubt over Nadal's normally determined visage as he stared down the court. However, it is the essence of his play to turn any slight adversity to his advantage.  He broke Puerta in the fourth game of the second set, and thereafter the Argentinian, seven years the older, who had played five-set matches in the quarter- and semi-finals, began to fade. Nadal almost totally controlled the third set but even then Puerta, who was banned for nine months in 2003 after a positive dope test for clenbuterol and dropped out of the top 400, was not finished.  He broke Nadal at the start of the fourth set, immediately dropped his own serve but broke again to serve for the set at 5-4. It was then that Nadal was seen at his most resilient and courageous, with one net rally having the King on his feet. At the end everybody stood for "Rafa".  ·  Winners at Roland Garros   Men's singles   Rafael Nadal (Spain, seeded 4)    Women's singles   Justine Henin-Hardenne (Belgium, 10)    Men's doubles   Jonas Bjorkman and Max Mirnyi (Sweden/Belarus, 2)    Women's doubles   Virginia Ruano Pascual and Paola Suarez (Spain/Argentina, 1)    Mixed doubles   Daniela Hantuchova and Fabrice Santoro (Slovakia/France, unseeded)    Boys' singles   Marin Cilic (Croatia, unseeded)    Girls' singles   Agnes Szavay (Hungary, 8)    Boys' doubles   Emiliano Massa and Leonardo Mayer (Argentina, unseeded)    Girls' doubles   Victoria Azarenka and Agnes Szavay (Bulgaria/Hungary, 3) 