In search for common ground among Labour MPs, party leader says he would end private firms’ involvement in provision  
Heather Stewart 
 Jeremy Corbyn will pledge to “renationalise” the NHS on Wednesday as he sets out some of the policies he hopes to use to reunite the Labour party if he succeeds in seeing off a leadership challenge from Owen Smith. At an event in London with his shadow health secretary and close ally Diane Abbott, Corbyn will make a series of pledges aimed at ending the involvement of private companies in NHS provision. “The next Labour government would go further than reversing Tory cuts – it would deliver a modern health and social care service that is fully publicly provided and fully publicly funded,” Corbyn will say. “Health, health financing and health inequality is a matter of paramount national importance. The Labour government I lead will ensure that money goes to patients not contractors, and that our NHS is given the resources to provide a top quality service as part of a program to rebuild and transform Britain so that no-one and no community is left behind.”  A Corbyn-led government would not sign any new contracts under the private finance initiative, under which many new hospitals were built during the previous Labour government under long-term arrangements with private firms, he will say.  Corbyn would also like to establish a taxpayer-backed fund to buy struggling hospitals out of their existing PFI arrangements. He would lend his support to a private members’ bill, tabled by the Labour backbencher Margaret Greenwood, aimed at strengthening the responsibilities of the health secretary and end the NHS internal market, and he would reintroduce nurses’ bursaries. It was unclear how a future Labour government would find the money to fund this so-called renationalisation. But Corbyn’s allies hope that rolling back NHS privatisation is one of the areas on which many Labour MPs can find common ground, aiding the leader’s attempt to reunite the party after a fractious leadership contest. The summer leadership contest has seen a flurry of policy announcements in areas including transport and education, as Corbyn seeks to demonstrate that his shadow cabinet – denuded by scores of resignations since the EU referendum – is still able to provide an effective opposition. A spokesman for Smith described the proposals as “nothing that hasn’t been announced before”, and pointed to the leadership challenger’s policy of increasing health spending by 4% a year. Smith faced a grilling from users of the parenting website Mumsnet on Tuesday, saying he hoped to lead the party in the style of his hero, John Smith — and revealing that his favourite biscuit is a garibaldi. 