Wiley | Alvvays | Van Morrison | Konono No 1 | The Impossible Gentlemen | Accused 
Jennifer Lucy Allan, 
Andrew Clements, 
John Fordham & 
John Robinson 
 Wiley is an artist who blows hot and cold with mainstream success. After emerging from the UK grime scene of 10 years ago, it didn’t take long for him to turn his talents to witty hit singles such as Wearing My Rolex or the superb Cash in My Pocket. Some might maintain that once you’ve tasted first class, you can never go back – but that’s precisely what the east Londoner has done, often in a fairly chaotic fashion, moving his prolific output between major and indie labels (XL, Warner Music), sometimes denouncing or leaking his material as he goes. Since the success of his ninth album, 2013’s The Ascent (which featured singles Lights On and his ubiquitous No 1 Heatwave), Wiley has decided to go back to basics. Now on an indie, the tough beat of his new single On A Level finds him referencing his old Roll Deep crew and dispensing some sound financial advice: “Just live within your means, innit?” Various venues JR Time was when the indie guitar band would approach pop music in a gestural fashion; their attitude or technical limitations obliquely helping them create something different. Toronto’s Alvvays come with far less baggage than that. Their eponymous debut album does comprise fairly untutored guitar music, but the songs themselves are attractive and accomplished. In the past year, Molly Rankin’s band have toured hard, but not at the expense of their innocent sound, which has all the guileless charm of classic indie pop without ever crossing over into twee. Various venues  JR Like his fellow traveller and sometime rival Bob Dylan, Van Morrison is an artist who continues to find ways of engaging with the monumental works in his past. Rather than dismantling his most famous material and dramatically reconfiguring it, however, Van and his band simply find ways to connect with the searching spirit that birthed it in the first place. Morrison’s work has staked out a considerable space for itself, claiming territories from jazz, folk, soul and R&B, with influences ebbing and flowing easefully within his catalogue or – in the case of his best work – in the drifting space of a single song. His shows are generally a place for hardcore fans, but newcomers in attendance can expect to be moved by the engrossing warmth of the playing and, given his curmudgeonly reputation, possibly surprised by the man’s occasionally engaging manner. The Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, Mon JR Electrified thumb pianos, scratchy mics, rattling steel speaker cones and amps made from car parts: the trance music of Congolese group Konono No 1 embraces the lo-fi distortion of its instruments and amplifiers. Initially a frustration, now this aesthetic is the thumbprint of their sound. Looped guitar riffs and distorted vocals canter along, with shouts and calls hollered over the top, and the group’s distinctive amplified kalimba singing high and bright above the cacophony. At this major residency at Dalston’s Cafe Oto (which follows a show in Glasgow), the group will be squeezing five performances into three days. O2 ABC, Glasgow, Thu; Cafe Oto, E8, Fri to 1 Feb JA The idea behind international superband The Impossible Gentlemen originally sprang from a meeting between Salford’s world-league guitarist Mike Walker and US drummer Adam Nussbaum, which uncovered the pair’s mutual enthusiasm for melodic jazzy delicacy, improv surprises and hard-rocking muscle. Walker invited young UK piano star Gwilym Simcock, Nussbaum brought in legendary American bassist Steve Swallow, and between the four of them, they made two dynamic albums buzzing with fresh material. The story goes on with a new tour, now with former Pat Metheny bassist Steve Rodby replacing Swallow. The band morph classical forms, Hammond-organ soul, Metheny-style themes and straight-swinging jazz. They don’t sound like any other jazz foursome on the planet. Various venues JF Magnus Lindberg built his reputation on a series of wonderfully crafted ensemble pieces but, until now, vocal work has played very little part in his musical thinking. His first choral and orchestral piece, Graffiti, only appeared six years ago, and now he has completed his first work for soprano. Accused: 3 Interrogations was composed for the phenomenal Barbara Hannigan and premieres starring her as part of Lindberg’s residency with the London Philharmonic. The texts of Accused are taken from three very different periods of history: the first documents an interview with a woman during the French revolution, the second is a transcript from a Stasi interrogation in 1960s East Germany, and the third is from the trial of Bradley (now Chelsea) Manning. It promises to be new territory for Lindberg. Royal Festival Hall, SE1, Wed AC 