 Price £31,995MPG 44.8Top speed 155mph The Peugeot RCZ R is a small car that goes very fast. With its pronounced wheel arches, star-centred alloys and exuberant twin exhausts it wouldn't look out of place in a Hot Wheels toy box. It's an Audi TT for show-offs. And it really is quick, too. In fact, it is the most powerful production car ever made by Peugeot. It's so responsive, the ooomph so immediate, that when you drive it, it's easy to imagine a giant child hovering above you, drool spilling from his toothless mouth as he zooms you across the parquet. That huge toddler whizzed me down to the National Motor Museum in Beaulieu – a place of misty-eyed pilgrimage for me, a place of eye-rolling boredom for my 12-year-old daughter, who failed to dodge the offer of a "nice day out with Daddy". For me and the Peugeot, however, it was the perfect destination as Beaulieu was all about speed and toys that weekend. Speed: it was celebrating the 50th anniversary of Donald Campbell achieving 403mph in his astounding Bluebird CN7 at Lake Eyre in 1964. Toys: the museum had just broken the world record for the longest bumper-to-bumper line of toy cars. Volunteers took 10 hours to lay out 24,189 cars over 1.91km. After all the autophilia it was a joy to climb into the RCZ R for a proper drive home. Peugeot launched the model in 2010 to mark its 200th anniversary (it started out in tools, hence the lion logo with its saw-like teeth). The RCZ's classic lines coupled with the seductive double-bubble rear window made it an instant hit and since then Peugeot has harnessed that impetus to try to change itself from a workaday car-maker to a want-one car-maker. And it's working: Auto Express named it the most-improved manufacturer and its RCZ was awarded the best sports car. Now, to pipe more fondant on to its cake, the company has handed the RCZ over to Peugeot Sport, the Paris-based division which gave us, among other delights, the 908 Le Mans racer of 2011 and last summer's Pikes Peak winner. Sébastien Loeb drove the 12-mile course that climbs 5,000ft with 156 hairpins in a heavily modified Peugeot 208 in a fraction over eight minutes. The video alone will have you reaching for a sick bag. Peugeot Sport has now taken the already amply endowed RCZ and boosted the turbocharged 1.6-litre petrol engine to create 267bhp – 40% more power than before. It's also stiffer, has lowered suspension and upgraded brakes. For the extra five grand the race package costs you also get a matt black roof, special 19in wheels and a large rear spoiler. To drive, the car is supple and eager – it's more of a cougar than a lion. The gearbox is incredibly flexible – you can hit 60mph while still in second, something I normally only do by mistake. It handles Britain's degraded roads well, especially as its stiff suspension has been set up for the smooth Tarmac of the continent. It's a thrilling yet economic performer, and those two opposites rarely come in a single package. Should you buy one? Yes, of course. Will you buy one? No, of course not – especially as the un-tweaked RCZ is all the toy racer you need. But it's nice to think, one day, you just might. The White Helmets Motorcycle Display Team joined forces with motorbike insurance broker Carole Nash to promote Ride to Work Day (ridetoworkday.co.uk). Dressed as City bankers the team performed their famous human pyramid in front of the London Eye and the Houses of Parliament. On Ride to Work Day, motorbike and scooter riders around the world show just how enjoyable their daily commute is. What we need now is a similar capital stunt on Boris bikes… Email Martin at martin.love@observer.co.uk or visit /profile/martinlove for all his reviews in one place. Follow Martin on Twitter @MartinLove166 