 Time was running out and many home supporters were making their way towards the exit, with numerous others having left already. The sense of missed opportunity was inescapable – but then, with the last chance of the game, Danny Welbeck, on as a substitute after a long spell out with injury, rose to head in a winner that allowed Arsenal to complete a league double over Leicester City and, more importantly, close the gap with the east Midlands side to two points. Every season there is a match the eventual champions look back at as being a turning point – in Arsène Wenger’s first title-winning season at Arsenal, it was the 1-0 win at Manchester United in March 1998, and this 2-1 victory on a cold afternoon in February could prove to be similarly telling. Certainly the roar from the majority of those in attendance that greeted the goal and the final whistle shortly after suggests they believe a first championship in 12 years is well and truly on. The sense of deflation among those associated with Leicester will be sizeable after this defeat but from manager and staff to players and supporters, they should remember that they remain top of the league. Another test faces them now, however, as they move on to a string of fixtures from which they will be expected to take a sizeable number of points – Norwich (h), on 27 February, followed by West Bromwich Albion (h), Watford (a), Newcastle United (h) and Crystal Palace (a) before the end of March. Can they handle the pressure of being favourites to win week in, week out? We are about to find out and, much like this match, it is sure to make for gripping viewing. Jamie Vardy and Riyad Mahrez have been the leading contenders for Leicester’s player of the season and, in all probability, the Premier League player of the season award, too. After this contest, though, it really is hard to look far beyond N’Golo Kanté. The central midfielder was utterly sensational here, protecting the visitors’ back four with a string of interceptions while also charging forward when the opportunity presented itself to join in their attack, most notably just before half-time when he cut inside from the right edge of Arsenal’s area and curled a shot at goal that forced Petr Cech to palm away the ball for a corner. Those who have regularly watched Kanté this season will not have been too surprised by his display, given his consistently excellent form since arriving from Caen for £5.6m in August, a deal that, with each passing day, looks like the bargain of the season. We appear to be living in a golden age of Premier League goalkeepers and on show here were two of the best around, Petr Cech and Kasper Schmeichel. Prior to kick-off, Cech was named Arsenal’s player of the month for January and he showed exactly why he is worthy of the accolade when in the first half he produced a stunning one-handed save to keep out Vardy’s close-range header. That followed an eye-catching moment from Schmeichel as he charged out of his area and executed a perfectly timed and important tackle on Aaron Ramsey as the Welshman ran clear on goal, with the Dane making a string of fine saves late on as Leicester came agonisingly close to earning a point in north London. If either of these sides do end up winning the title, there is no doubt their No1s (or No33 in Cech’s case) will have played a crucial role. Eight days after 10,000 Liverpool supporters left Anfield early in disgust at rising ticket prices we were meant to see another fans-led protest here, with Leicester’s travelling contingent vowing to enter this venue five minutes after kick-off to make clear their anger at one of modern football’s other ills – the late rescheduling of matches to suit broadcasters, with Sky Sports moving this fixture back by 24 hours less than four weeks ago, so they could make it part of their Super-duper-grand-slam-you-dare-not-miss-it Sunday … or whatever they called it. In the end, most of the away fans were in their seats before play started, which was a shame to see for those of us who like it when football’s most important people – the paying spectators – take a stand for what they feel is right. Ultimately, perhaps, a combination of freezing conditions and the desire to show full backing for a team threatening a sporting miracle persuaded those who had travelled from the east Midlands to get in as quickly as they could. 