Asda is to cut prices on fresh meat and own brand essentials such as tomato ketchup and instant coffee by an average of 15% in the latest salvo in the supermarket price war. Britain’s third largest grocery chain is also planning to cut prices on some wines, alongside improving the freshness of its fruit and vegetables as it tries to turnaround a dismal sales performance.  The cuts on thousands of lines come after rival retailer Morrisons slashed the price of 160 products, mainly fresh meat, fruit and vegetables, by an average 12% last week.  Asda will launch a new catch line “That’s Better” via a TV campaign which will premiere during The X Factor on ITV on Saturday. The latest campaign replaces the previous “pocket more” price campaign and will feature TV chef James Martin who previously fronted a series of ads to highlight the quality of food at Asda. Asda’s move will fuel rumours that the chain will  try to win back shoppers from the likes of Aldi and Lidl with aggressive price cuts setting off a full-scale industry price war. However, the latest round of price cuts is understood to be within Asda’s £1.5bn price investment budget announced earlier this year.  Asda said last month that it will not increase its investment in price cuts despite a 7.5% slump in sales at established stores in the three months to 30 June, by far the worst performance of the UK’s major supermarkets. The drop in sales at established stores was a much worse performance after a 5.7% fall in the previous three months and its eighth quarter of decline.  Asda chief executive, Sean Clarke, who replaced long-term boss Andy Clarke this summer, said: “This week we’re taking the next step in our journey to deliver better value for our customers and to improve quality. We will continue to listen to our customers and take action, with better prices for products they buy week in, week out.” The major chains typically launch promotional campaigns at this time of year as they try to capitalise on families stocking up after the school holidays. But Asda is keen to improve its reputation pricing after losing its long-held position as the UK’s cheapest major grocer to the German discounters. Asda has been losing market share for the past two years as Aldi and Lidl have expanded rapidly, while bigger rival Tesco has improved its prices and service.  Price deflation and the rise of online shopping, combined with increasing use of small local grocery stores, have driven sales declines at all the major traditional supermarket chains. 