Our young reviewers try the the Raspberry Pi 2, the Kano, the MakeyMakey and more Our young reviewers try the the Raspberry Pi 2, the Kano, the MakeyMakey and more 
 Children should have the opportunity to be creators, not just consumers of technology. I learned how to code when I was a kid and I’ve been doing it ever since. But introducing your kids to what’s possible with robots, electronics and computers can feel daunting, and I’m someone who has studied computer science! My wife is an author and photographer, and we have four children, aged two, four, six and eight – they call themselves the “mini-makers” because we’re all quite creative. The eldest have started showing an interest in technology, partly because they see me tinkering, but also because learning about technology now has a bigger emphasis in the school curriculum. So, where do you start? Here are a handful of “kidtech” kits to get the family learning about coding, robots and electronics at home. £20 TECHWILLSAVEUS.COM This kit is a great first step in learning how to build a useful electronic gadget and only takes an hour or so. You follow instructions together to make a sensor that will tell you if you need to water a plant. The box is colourful and attractive, and the instructions easy to follow. It definitely doesn’t feel geeky and it’s quite like putting a Lego set together. As a parent you don’t need to worry about understanding the components. Other kits have more longevity and can be used for a variety of other projects. This is really for a one-off making session. However, the plant sensor becomes a constant reminder in your home that you do this kind of stuff together. £120 ROBOSAVVY.COM One of the challenges for parents wanting to introduce kids to electronics is that we’re all a bit rusty, if that! This kit sidesteps that – it’s a set of pre-build modules that snap together magnetically to create devices, so kids can easily follow the instructions. This is their Nasa-themed kit so was a real hit – you can build a mini space station and a Mars rover together. This is designed for slightly older kids than mine but even so they loved it, and it’s something to grow into over time. Accessible, achievable and inspiring. I’d have so loved to have had this when I was growing up. £100 UK.KANO.ME Kano is a beautiful “build your own computer” kit based on a Raspberry Pi and they’re solving the complexity of getting up and going with it. One of the problems with the Pi is that for non-coders and people used to OSX and Windows it can be a bit daunting and fiddly. The onboarding process was so much fun and almost like a game. The operating system is simple, and is skewed towards helping kids learn. It needs a bit of work because we sometimes got stuck and had to restart the device, but the kids loved the whole experience. I can imagine a Kano plugged into the TV as a great thing for the living room and I can’t wait to see the next version that uses the more powerful Pi 2. £25 UK.RS-ONLINE.COM I’m amazed about how much computer they can pack into such a small size – and at such a low price! It’s best to ease yourself into this, because it’s quite a steep learning curve. Keeping the kids interested while getting it set up was hard, and there’s some assumed knowledge about how Linux works which you need when things go wrong. Make sure you have a book or a website to help you. I had trouble with the operating system – just getting it connected to the internet, which was frustrating. But once you’re past that you have a great tool that you can use in projects like making robots, so stick with it! £39 MAKEYMAKEY.COM This is a circuit board that pretends it’s a computer keyboard. Attach anything conductive and trigger key-presses on your computer by closing a circuit. Plug it in, no need to download or install anything, attach a couple of wires to something conductive and you’re all set. Make sure you have a pack of bananas to hand. They’re conductive, so a great first project is the included “banana bongos”. Or how about controlling Minecraft with pots and pans? It’s so simple, yet so versatile. Together with a Raspberry Pi you can make some amazing projects and it’s something you’ll keep coming back to when you have an idea. We’re trying a “musical staircase” next. £90 BARECONDUCTIVE.COM The standout from the kits we tried together is this beautiful kit from a London startup. It’s an elegantly engineered Arduino (so you can do loads with it in future) but it’s also usable right out of the box without any code. We used the conductive “electric paint” to make a poster of a tree, with six hand-drawn birds on it. Touching the paint plays one of a set of MP3s that you can load on to the Touch Board. We downloaded six Radio 4 Tweet of the Day episodes, so that when you touch one of the birds you hear its birdsong. All that I needed to do was put the files on the supplied MicroUSB card and name them “TRACK001.mp3” and so on. Being able to combine art and electronics to make something together that feels this magical is really inspiring! £15 TECHWILLSAVEUS.COM This is a fun, cheap, introductory kit for kids aged four and up. Make coloured dough together, with extra salt so it becomes conductive. Then make circuits with batteries, wires and lights. Several kids can do it together if you buy extra battery packs from an electronics shop. As the parent, you don’t really need any electronics skills. Kids have short attention spans, so when you’re trying to introduce them to something you need to know it’s going to work first time. Each of the kits does a good job at doing that, but there are still gremlins. Make sure you open up the kit in advance of showing it off so you know if you’re missing some crucial connector – in the case of the Pi, you might need a Wi-Fi adapter, an HDMI adapter for a monitor, an extra keyboard and mouse. With the Kano I’d advise setting it up the night before to get past the boring software update part, then put it all back in the box after creating a new profile for your child. For the Touch Board I needed an extra USB phone charger so that I could power the speaker when it ran out of charge. All of these things seem minor, but when you’re trying an activity or a project you’ll want to keep the kids engaged and excited – finishing a project together in an afternoon is a great feeling. For most of the kits we reviewed you have potential for a wide variety of creative projects so read their websites for inspiration, check out Instructables, DIY.org and similar sites, or think up a project of your own. The topics that the kids are doing at school or what they’re interested in at the moment are good starting points. Once you’ve done one or two your confidence builds and you’ll be able to try out ambitious things. The MakeyMakey, Touch Board and Raspberry Pi are all so versatile that you’ll quickly start thinking of ways to use them in projects together, and to me that’s the most inspiring part – kids learning to invent something new with technology rather than being glued to the screen playing the latest game. Stef Lewandowski is a technologist and artist currently working on an inspirational box of technology for schools at DistributeTheFuture.com 