Ted Baker has reported a 20% rise in annual profits, with further international expansion plans boosted by well received spring and summer ranges. The British clothing chain, which has 448 stores and concessions worldwide, has been outperforming many rivals and is pushing ahead with a raft of overseas store openings. The company was one of the few high-street retailers to report strong sales over Christmas.  The firm, known for quirky fashion details, said the initial reaction to its spring and summer collections had been positive. It is tapping into the growing activewear market with a new range of premium sportswear for women, Fit to a T, featuring flowery designs.  Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive, said: “We have again traded very well – despite an uncertain backdrop in some of our markets – which is testament to the strength of the Ted Baker brand as well as our unwavering focus on quality, design and attention to detail.” Current trading is in line with its expectations, apart from in Asia where demand has slumped. Asia is a small part of the Ted Baker business, making up 3.4% of revenues, and it still sees long-term potential in the region despite its current economic malaise. Rebecca Marks, analyst at the consultancy Verdict Retail, said: “On track to establish itself as a global lifestyle brand, Ted Baker accelerated its international expansion during the year, with investment in brand-building in newer markets paying off. A strong performance in North America demonstrates the brand’s growing recognition.” The company made a profit before tax of £58.7m for the year to 30 January. Retail sales rose 13.5% to £348.4m, with UK and European sales up 8.9% to £252.5m while the US and Canada contributed £80.6m, up 27.3%. Online sales were up 45.8% to £53.5m. The wholesale division posted 33.6% growth to £107.7m. Womenswear, which makes up 55% of sales, was up 15.9% but menswear was the better performer, with 20.1% sales growth. Marks said Ted Baker responded to its typical 25 to 45-year-old male shoppers’ growing demands for increased choice and style, with its quality collections justifying the high price tags. This year the retailer plans to open a new store in Paris, five outlets across north America and further concessions in France, Germany, Spain, China and Japan. In the past year it opened its first shops in Amsterdam, Azerbaijan, Hawaii, Mexico and Qatar. The company has also invested in a new European distribution centre in Derby which will be fully operational by the middle of next year and employ 250 people. Ted Baker has grown from a Glasgow shirt shop, set up by Kelvin in 1988, to a global fashion brand that also sells jewellery, perfume, luggage, rugs and tiles, with stores from Beijing to Boston. The FTSE 250 company raised its annual dividend by 18.6% to 47.8p a share. “The Ted Baker brand is unique,” said Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Freddie George. “It remains clearly differentiated from peers and is beginning to gain momentum from a global perspective. It is very much in the early stages of an international roll-out strategy, particularly in Europe.” 