 Claire Lyte, who had played at the Wimbledon championships, was condemned by the judge for selfishly manipulating the infatuated schoolgirl for her own sexual ends.  Last month, the 29-year-old - who maintained her innocence to the end - was found guilty of having sexual relations with the girl between May 2005 and June 2006 while working as a coach at the Lawn Tennis Training Academy in Loughborough. She shared a bed with the girl, wore her underwear and was caught engaging in oral sex by the girl's mother. Liverpool crown court was told the mother caught her daughter and the coach naked in bed together in October 2005, and that Lyte, who coached the girl for 10 months, had offered to babysit.  Lyte, of Solihull, West Midlands, claimed the child's mother had invented the allegations because her daughter was not good enough to turn professional.  However, after a 14-day trial, a jury found Lyte guilty of five counts of unlawful sexual activity with a child.  Sentencing her today, Judge Nigel Gilmour QC said she had committed a serious breach of trust.  "The girl's family expected you to look after her and she was entrusted in your care," he said "You corrupted that girl and advanced her experiences of sexual matters by some years. "You welcomed her attention and encouraged it, and then manipulated what had become her infatuation with you and did that for your own selfish sexual ends." He said he was sure Lyte had "feelings of affection" for the child, adding: "As you have said in your evidence, you allowed your heart to rule your head." Lyte's barrister, David Mason, said in mitigation: "It's right she will never coach tennis again ... certainly, she will never coach children again, which is tragic - tennis was her lifelong passion and she has thrown away a glittering career."  Lyte, once ranked among the top 500 players in the world, turned to coaching after suffering a wrist problem.  Within months of her meeting the girl, it was noted that the pair were spending time together in isolated parts of the campus and in the girl's room. They wore similar clothes and tied their hair with three bands in the same way.  The court heard that Lyte repeatedly ignored warnings not to get too close to the girl. But staff did not know the pair were spending nights together at the girl's home while her mother was away, or that they were sharing hotel rooms and visiting Lyte's flat. The LTA took action in late October 2005, unaware that the girl's mother had already discovered the pair in the child's bedroom naked and having oral sex.  Despite assurances from Lyte, the relationship continued for another 10 months - but when the girl's mother saw the coach wearing the child's clothes, it was the last straw. She went to the police, after which her daughter threatened to jump from a roof.  The teenager, now 15, said she had been threatened and pressurised into the relationship. Lyte was banned from working with children indefinitely and ordered to sign the sex offenders register. 