Hannah Ellis-Petersen 
 The spaces that inspire great music are not always the ones you expect. Bon Iver locked himself away in rural hunting cabin to make his debut album. Sigur Rós once recorded in a drained swimming pool and Nine Inch Nails set up camp in the mansion where Charles Manson murdered Sharon Tate. Certainly, wandering into the labyrinthine, crumbling depths of London’s Somerset House, it is the last place you would expect one of the UK’s most acclaimed and enigmatic artists to pick as her recording venue of choice. But as a small privileged group of about 30 people pass through an anonymous-looking black door, all of a sudden a burst of haunting music fills the air and an illuminated studio comes into view. And in the middle of this Perspex studio, dressed entirely in black, and surrounded by a sea of instruments, sits PJ Harvey. This was one of the first public viewings of Harvey’s five-week album making process, where 3,000 ticket holders have been given intimate and unprecedented access to her studio, temporarily set up in the site of a former Inland Revenue gym and civil service shooting range. While onlookers can see directly through the studio walls, Harvey and her numerous collaborators cannot see or hear the audience gathered on the other side of the glass. She is in the studio with her long-time collaborator John Parish, and fellow musicians Terry Edwards and James Johnston, as well as her producer Flood, who worked on her Mercury prize-winning Let England Shake in 2011. Over 45 minutes, Harvey lets the audience witness the detailed process of composing and layering instruments over the vocals for one track, titled All Near The Memorials to Vietnam and Lincoln. Also in the studio is Seamus Murphy, the photojournalist who created a series of films for Let England Shake, who is making a film of the entire album recording process. As a recording of the opening lyrics plays out across the gleaming white studio, Johnson begins to play the violin. “At the refreshment stand / a boy throws out his hand” goes the song. “As if to feed the starlings / but really he throws nothing.” Moments later, he is joined by Harvey herself on the violin, an instrument she later abandons in favour of a folk-favourite, the hurdy gurdy, while Parish plays the accordion and Edwards plays both the harmonica and the flute. While the project, titled Recording in Progress, is being described as a living art installation, aside from the unusual location and the gathered audience there is little to distinguish it from any ordinary music studio. Saxophones, guitars, clarinets, drums, an antique piano and jars of sherbert lemons clutter up the small but brightly-lit space, and at no point do Harvey or her fellow musicians show any recognition they are being watched. The art project, in collaboration with Artangel, has been a year in the making, but there are signs Harvey has been working on the album for longer. The lyrics to the ten album tracks line the walls of the viewing gallery – framed in their rough, often altered and scribbled out format – for the audience to peruse in great detail, and one song, titled Imagine This, dates back as far as February 2012. “She’s been writing for this record for over two years so this is album is going to have a much broader scope than her previous work,” said Michael Morris, the co-director of Artangel, also watching from behind the glass. “These are songs inspired by her trips to Kosovo and Afghanistan and Washington and it is an album informed by and addressing the very current geopolitical issues of our time. I think it is going to be extraordinary.” Indeed, sketches by Harvey from a trip she made to Afghanistan with Murphy in 2013 hang on the studio wall, some showing starlings, others donkeys, and two the building of the ministry of social affairs in Kabul, which is also the title of one of the album tracks. “See them sitting on the terrain / kneeling by the barricades / no-one smiling, no-one crying / staring straight back into my eyes” read the lyrics, pinned to the studio wall. Once the time is up, the audience is reluctantly ushered back out into daylight, most undecided whether they had discovered any more about an artist whose work has repeatedly defied expectation. One such onlooker is Jacob Engleberg, 21, who says he spent the 45 minutes in a state of awe. “It was like nothing I’ve ever seen before. There was something perfect about being able to see PJ Harvey making music up close” says Engleberg. “I’m such a big fan ... and don’t think it’s ruined her mystique at all. It was a really interesting way way to experience her music. I thought the song was very evocative of Let England Shake, I’m just sad I can’t hear the rest.” Laughing, he adds: “I would describe the whole experience as brilliantly frustrating.” • This article was amended on 30 January 2015 to correct the spelling of James Johnston’s name, from James Johnson as an earlier version said. 