Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
17:40
 The Conservative MP @jameswhartonuk has called for @PatGlassMP to resign as shadow Europe Min after she called a voter a 'horrible racist' However, given that Number 10 needs Labour (and its shadow Europe minister) to help it win the EU referendum, it would be surprising if pro-Remain Tories were to start attacking her too. As we’ve said all along, there is no threat to the NHS from TTIP. So if this amendment is selected, we’ll accept it. Kirsty will be a strong Liberal voice in the assembly, challenging the horrid and sexist views of UKIP, but also holding Labour’s feet to the fire. Education is the essential investment to allow everyone to succeed. And I have absolute confidence that Kirsty is about to have an incredible impact in improving education for children in Wales. That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. Updated
17:16
 LBC is broadcasting its interview with David Cameron, but it was pre-recorded and, helpfully, LBC have send out a transcript in advance. Here are the key points. I don’t want too many blue on blue conflicts partly because I want to demonstrate that those arguing to stay in the European Union, reformed European Union, include the Labour party, the Green party, the Liberal Democrat party, the trade union movement, most of British industry, the majority of small businesses. I want to prove the breadth of the campaign and I don’t want this to become a sort of Tory psychodrama between me and Boris or me and Michael Gove. I just I think he’s wrong. Hitler wanted to snuff out democracy across the continent and the European Union is basically an alliance of countries that share a view about democracy and liberal values.  
16:37
 Here is the audio of the Pat Glass interview. Having heard the clip, I’m slightly surprised that the BBC are broadcasting this comment. Glass clearly thought the broadcast interview was over - the interviewer says, “Okay, that’s great - before she went on to make the point about the “horrible racist”. At that point it is obvious that she thought she was off-the-record, and that she was just having a chat. It also sounds as if she was not being 100% serious when she said she was “never coming back to wherever this is”; from the recording, it sounds as if there was at least a sliver of jocularity in there. Was it legitimate to use it? Glass is not heard saying that her next remark was off-the-record, or not for broadcast, and the recorder was still running, and so in that respect her comment was fair game. But at that stage both parties seem to have been operating on the implicit understanding that the formal interview was over, and in that sense it is understandable that she thought she would not be quoted. There is a respectable case for saying that journalists should never agree to protect sources by treating information as off-the-record, because that amounts to a conspiracy against the public. But most journalists accept that that there is nothing inherently wrong with politicians being entitled to say things in private that they would not want to say attributably and on the record. (This only becomes objectionable when what they say in public contradicts what they say in private.) Journalists also often find that respecting confidences enables them to find out things which can make their reporting more informed, even if the price for that involves not being able to use direct quotes. Labour sources familiar with what happened to Glass, and what was said in her conversation with the voter, are very supportive of her position. Updated
15:53
 Pat Glass, the shadow Europe minister, has apologised after she was inadvertently recorded describing a voter as “a horrible racist” during an EU referendum campaign visit. She was in the village of Sawley in Derbyshire and was interviewed by BBC Radio Derby. At the end of the interview she was recorded saying: The very first person I come to is a horrible racist. I’m never coming back to wherever this is. The BBC said that the man she was referring to later denied being a racist, but said that in his conversation with the MP he had referred to a Polish family in the area who he thought were living on benefits. He had described them as “spongers”, he told the BBC. In a statement issued after this became public Glass said: The comments I made were inappropriate and I regret them. Concerns about immigration are entirely valid and it’s important that politicians engage with them. I apologise to the people living in Sawley for any offence I have caused. The episode has very strong similarities with what happened to Gordon Brown during the 2010 general election campaign when he was recorded describing Gillian Duffy as a “bigot” after meeting her and when he thought his microphone had been removed because she had been complaining to him about immigration from Eastern Europe. Maggie Throup, the Conservative MP whose Erewash constituency includes Sawley, said that Glass “needs to understand that the EU referendum is a highly emotive subject with passionate views on each side of the debate”. Throup said the remarks “clearly demonstrate just how out of touch Labour still are with a large proportion of British people.” In her statement Glass apologised to the people of Sawley, and not specifically to the individual concerned. Throup said Glass should “make a full apology to my constituent at the earliest opportunity” and to return to the area “to see for herself just how great a place it is to live, work and raise a family”.  Updated
15:31
 If Andy Burnham wants to become Labour’s candidate for mayor of Greater Manchester, he will have to beat Tony Lloyd, the former minister who is currently Greater Manchester’s police and crime commissioner, as well as its interim mayor (an unelected post created ahead of the proper mayoral election next year.) Lloyd already has the backing of the Unite union. And today Unison has announced that it is backing him too. 
15:18
 Labour has announced that it is hosting a “state of the economy” conference at Imperial College in London on Saturday. Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, will be speaking, and the other participants will include the economist Ha-Joon Chang, the journalist Paul Mason, the Unite general secretary Len McCluskey, the business broadcaster Linda Yueh, the economist Jonathan Portes, British Chambers of Commerce acting director general Adam Marshall and Helen Walbey from the Federation of Small Businesses. Chang said: I’m looking forward to speaking at Labour’s economic conference as I think it’s great that in the spirit of Labour’s new politics the Shadow Chancellor is opening up the debate on the future of the economy to people from all round the country. Perhaps if the Conservatives listened to a broader range of viewpoints the economy wouldn’t be in such a mess. No sensible economist agrees with the way the Conservatives are handling the economy at the moment, so I hope this conference will play a major part in developing Labour’s alternative plans for a more dynamic, fairer, and more sustainable economy. 
15:05
 Here is the Guardian’s Politics Weekly podcast, with Heather Stewart, Rafael Behr, Hugh Muir and Tom Clark discussing the Queen’s speech, the EU referendum and the Green party. 
14:16
 Workplace 2020 will be at the heart of how Labour is going to develop our alternative for the workforce of the 21st century. Instead of David Cameron’s agency Britain, with its zero hours contracts, insecurity and wage undercutting, we will be engaging with workers and employers to shape the policies that will deliver the high quality jobs of the future. Instead of a race to the bottom in jobs, pay and workplace rights, we will be shaping a different approach for the 2020s: based on a full-employment, high-skilled workforce, with decent pay, rights for employed and self-employed, and a voice at work through collective bargaining.  Immigration levels at present increase social tensions in the UK and are driving the rise of right wing extremist parties in Europe. Leaving the EU means there can be an annual National Dividend of £10bn which would otherwise be spent by the EU much as we had a Peace Dividend from reduced defence spending after the collapse of the Soviet Union. A National Dividend should be earmarked to alleviate the social impact of immigration in very specific areas of the UK. most impacted by high immigration, the NHS, education and housing. David Blunkett, the Labour former home secretary, responded by saying: “It’s extremely rich for David Owen to talk about ‘conviction politics’ when he has a long history of abandoning his political roots and turning his back on those he’d worked with back in the 1970s. He betrayed Labour once by splitting our party in the 1980s and he did it again by astonishingly endorsing the Tory Party in 1992.” As someone who holds progressive values, I am particularly surprised that you are aligning yourself with these venomous views. Continued silence by you will be taken as agreement with Nigel Farage’s shocking and outrageous comments, which should have no place in modern Britain.  Asked about Farage’s comment, Owen said he did not think people would resort to violence. Lord Owen on @Nigel_Farage words 'violence is the next step': I am confident the British people will not resort to violence. In an as-yet-unpublished interview with Swiss newspaper Die Weltwoche, Boris Johnson was asked about the competition. Declaring that there ought to be no limits on what any European can say ‘about the love that flowers between a Turkish president and a goat’, he proceeded to make up a limerick on the spot. It was a belter, and fills the poetry spot in this week’s Spectator.  It’s not for me to tell British people how to vote, it’s for me to explain what - as an employer of 4,000 people in the UK, somebody who has a residence here, somebody who is building two of the most expensive buildings ever built here in the UK, in London, to make this our European headquarters - what it means for our employees, and what it means for our company, and what it means for America. I just think that the UK would be disadvantaged compared to the situation they are now. They have a special relationship with the rest of the EU. They have the borders that they can control, unlike the rest of the EU. They have a trade surplus with the rest of the EU. They have some abilities to influence the dialogue that without which they would, and America - which is my concern - would not benefit. Updated
13:19
 Here is the academic Rob Ford, an elections expert, on the Ipsos MORI polling. Oppo ldr ratings after 8 mths:Foot -27Kinnock +2Smith -1Blair +30Hague -23IDS - 1Howard -12Cameron +2Ed M -8Corbyn -19 So after a brief rally last month, Corbyn falls back. Rates just above Foot and Hague, below everyone else (incl Ed M, Howard, IDS, Kinnock) 
13:18
 As the Press Association’s Richard Wheeler tweets, Chris Grayling also cracked a joke about the recent SNP sex scandal during business questions. Commons leader Chris Grayling has his say on the SNP affair allegations... pic.twitter.com/F9DqDIzmBF 
13:13
 The ongoing investigation into allegations that the Conservatives broke election law at the general election by ignoring constituency spending limits was raised in the House of Commons this morning. Pete Wishart, the SNP spokesman, raised the matter during business questions. He said that 14 police forces were now investigating. Calling for a government statement, he also quoted from Tim Ross’s election book, Why the Tories Won. Ross wrote: Buses were critical in moving party troops from where they live to where the swing voters could be found. The central party paid for all the buses and trains, as well as hotels and hostels. Chris Grayling, the leader of the Commons, responded by saying these were matters “for the appropriate authorities”, not for the government. 
12:59
 Here is more from the new Ipsos MORI poll. David Cameron and Jeremy Corbyn have both seen their satisfaction ratings fall in the last month, although Corbyn’s net ratings are higher than Cameron’s. Here is an excerpt from the news release. Satisfaction ratings for both the prime minister and the leader of the opposition have fallen this month. Satisfaction with David Cameron has fallen from 37% to 31%, and dissatisfaction risen from 56% to 61% (giving a net rating of -30, his worst since March 2013). Satisfaction with Corbyn has also fallen, from 38% to 31%, while dissatisfaction has risen from 43% to 50% (giving a net rating of -19). David Cameron however enjoys higher satisfaction ratings from within his own party than Jeremy Corbyn. Two in three (66%) Conservative supporters say they are satisfied with Cameron (27% are dissatisfied) compared with 56% of Labour supporters satisfied with Corbyn (31% are dissatisfied). 
12:49
 Here is the Guardian’s story about rebel Tory MPs joining up with Labour to back an amendment to the Queen’s speech motion saying the NHS should be excluded from TTIP (the transatlantic trade and investment partnership). Unite is backing the amendment. This is from Gail Cartmail, Unite’s assistant general secretary. Legal advice from a top QC shows that the NHS is at ‘serious risk’ from TTIP. This threat has become a real issue in the EU referendum debate. The amendment gives MPs a unique opportunity to neutralise the NHS as an EU referendum issue and to protect our health service from irreversible privatisation. This is a chance that the UK cannot afford to miss. Once TTIP is signed the UK will be locked into the deal for two decades. But Unite may be overstating there case. Even if the Commons were to pass the amendment, that in itself would not make any difference to the TTIP negotiations because it is just a declaratory statement, not legislation or a binding commitment on the government. real q: will @jeremycorbyn & @angusrobertson sign up to this amendment, force a defeat? LAb & SNP have TTIP concerns pic.twitter.com/xEcZ6LAOIq 
12:29
 New polling from Ipsos MORI shows that public confidence in the government’s handling of the economy has fallen sharply since last year’s general election, the Evening Standard reports. Some 47 per cent think the government is doing a bad job at running the economy, found Ipsos MORI researchers. The figure is up from 37 per cent in March 2015, when the Conservatives kicked off their general election campaign on the back of rising growth. The same survey also shows that Labour is, by a wide margin, not seen as ready to form a government, and that it seen as even less ready to form a government than it was in May 2011. Jeremy Corbyn is also seen as not ready to be prime minister. But he is seen as more ready to be prime minister than Ed Miliband was in May 2011. 
12:07
 Anushka Asthana Jeremy Corbyn said today that Labour would be backing the proposal to pass an amendment to the Queen’s speech motion saying the NHS should be excluded from the EU/US free trade deal, or TTIP (the transatlantic trade and investment partnership). See 9.43am. He said: Yes we will be backing that. I would personally go much further because my concerns about TTIP are not just about the effect on public services but also the principle of investor protection that goes within TTIP planned rules which would in effect almost enfranchise global corporations at the expense of national governments. This protection of the NHS is an important step but it’s not the whole step. We will be supporting it. 