The king of musical theatre conducted an audience of amateurs in a passionate performance of his hit musical Parade – including our writer, his biggest fan The king of musical theatre conducted an audience of amateurs in a passionate performance of his hit musical Parade – including our writer, his biggest fan 
Kate John 
 Two hundred and twenty people just heard me sing in the wrong place. The ballroom of the Crowne Plaza hotel in midtown Manhattan is crammed with college kids and high schoolers with choral folders: it looks like the time Glee went to regionals. And as the rest of the gargantuan choir around me just finished a phrase in perfect harmony, I was the only one who kept singing. I keep my eyes down, and hope that the conductor – who just happens to be my greatest musical hero – doesn’t realise it was me. The chorus of amateur singers from across the States and beyond are rehearsing a special version of the musical Parade for a one-off concert at New York’s Lincoln Center. Once a year, Manhattan Concert Productions (MCP), an organisation which develops musicians through participation events, brings school and student choruses together and unites them with a professional Broadway cast and orchestra. It’s an opportunity for aspiring performers to learn from the very best. Parade happens to be written by my favourite composer: Jason Robert Brown. This is a big year for Brown. When he heard his music, Stephen Sondheim is said to have said “Now I can put down my pen.” It may be apocryphal, but Brown’s complex, imaginative scores coupled with smart, biting lyrics have made him Sondheim’s heir apparent. An icon in the musical theatre community for over a decade, he’s finally hitting the big time: his version of the comedy caper Honeymoon in Vegas opened on Broadway in January. His Tony-nominated adaptation of The Bridges of Madison County, its score bursting with ethereal melodies, is headed out on a national tour. And a movie version of his cult two-hander, The Last Five Years, opened at cinemas on Valentine’s Day, starring Anna Kendrick and Jeremy Jordan as a young couple in an ultimately doomed romance – a story inspired by Brown’s first marriage. I’ve been in love with Brown’s music since I was 21, when I heard his debut revue, Songs For a New World. I can remember playing the CD on repeat, learning every harmony line, laughing at every joke. As an aspiring actor (albeit one who lasted a very few years in the profession) Brown, like Sondheim, seemed to be a rare composer in creating characters with depth and shaping the actual notes, beats and rests around the characters’ thought processes. When he came to London to perform with his band the Caucasian Rhythm Kings, I dragged along everyone I could think of to see him. This year I am getting married and already have one of his songs picked out for my trip up the aisle. Now I have the opportunity to be conducted by him. When the sheet music arrived a couple of months ago, it was accompanied with a long list of incredibly detailed notes: for instance, “On a stressed syllable, the ‘nt’ configuration is pronounced ‘n’, except in the funeral sequence.” So by the time I arrive at our first rehearsal, four days before the concert, I am nervous about the many things I might get wrong, especially since the rest of the chorus is made up of choirs who have spent weeks rehearsing together. A sympathetic student called Vanessa tells me that she has had to do “a lot of personal work” to prepare for this weekend. “Listening to the music, it doesn’t sound that complicated,” she said. “But when you look at the page, it looks like madness.” An MCP staff member gives the announcements – don’t wear perfume to rehearsals (we’ll be spending a lot of time sitting close together), do wear deodorant (ditto). Remember to eat. And sleep. Please get some sleep. Our first rehearsal is with the musical supervisor, Tom Murray – Brown is at the premiere of The Last Five Years. His task is to transform us from disparate choirs into our onstage incarnations: a town parade, an angry mob. At one stage he decides we’re all singing too beautifully to be a funeral congregation, so he tells us to imagine someone in our family singing a hymn – and then copy what that would sound like.  Turning a chorus from singers into players in a drama is key, Brown tells me the following day. “I’ve worked with Tom a long time and part of what we have is the ability to get people to think musically and to connect the music to the drama. What’s thrilling about musical theatre – and what it makes it really really hard – is that you need to be fluent in both of those languages.” He has assembled a principal cast of Broadway leading lights who are perfect embodiments of those skills, from Les Miserables’ current Valjean, Ramin Karimloo, to long-time Phantom of the Opera Davis Gaines. The story of Parade is based on the 1913 trial of Jewish factory manager Leo Frank, accused of murdering a 13-year old employee and then lynched by a local mob. The show hasn’t been seen in New York since it closed two months after its Broadway debut in 1999. “We’re all a little bit wary about putting it back on its feet,” says Brown, “because all the same critics that were here then are here now. I’m past it now, but it was a little dispiriting that the show was deemed to be in some way faulty. I never felt that it was. We’d worked on it five, six years and then someone gets to come and put that label on it … that was offensive to me then and it’s still sort of offensive to me now. The show had a toe-tag on it for a while.” A chamber production at the Donmar in London in 2007 was better received and served as a reminder of just how powerful a work this examination of prejudice and American history can be. I ask him whether its complexity gives him any concerns about amateurs like me tackling it. “No,” he says. “You put enough singers together with enough passion, it will sound passionate. We always thought of it as an American opera, so we always wanted it to be very large in scale, and when MCP came to me it seemed like the perfect opportunity. To sit here with 220 people in the choir all sort of screaming at me is exceptionally gratifying. And to do it where we did it 16 years ago at Lincoln Center means a lot.” This is the busiest period in his working life – does that make him optimistic about the state of the American musical? “I’m not ever optimistic about the genre,” he says. “If you look through history at every musical ever written, well over 95% of them are absolutely terrible. All you can do is keep producing the work and maybe your stuff is in the 5%, maybe it’s not. By a certain standard the commercial marketplace is doing incredibly well; by a creative standard I don’t know I’d say the same thing. But I don’t know that it matters. 13 was a disaster in a New York but now it’s my second most produced show.” At the four-hour technical rehearsal, I have plenty of time to watch Brown work. Ten feet from his podium, I see him keeping perfect time by muttering the complicated rhythms under his breath, while simultaneously bringing in different sections of the orchestra, taking cues from the cast, listening out for notes that need fixing, and keeping an eye on his watch for when the musicians go into overtime. “I am the laziest person in the world,” he’s said to me, “except when it comes to the quality of the work. I will kill myself to make sure it is what it is supposed to be.” He’s also surprisingly quiet, communicating instead through a passionate conducting style that’s exhausting just to watch. “I thought he’d be more analytical,” agrees Colin, one of the musical theater students, “but he’s been more about getting the gut behind it.” On Monday night I am standing under the stage lights of the Avery Fisher Hall, with a Broadway cast, the New York City Chamber Orchestra and 200 singers. It’s halfway through the first number Old Red Hills of Home before I take stock of what is happening. The man whose music I have long cherished is waving his baton in my direction. Sandwiched between a giant chorus and a sizeable orchestra, the sound is overwhelming, intense, moving. Beside me, a teenage girl’s eyes well up as we belt out the final note of the song, all 200 of us coming off the note in perfect synchronicity. A split second passes before the entire auditorium erupts into deafening cheering and applause that goes on and on. I think perhaps I am not the only Jason Robert Brown fan in the room. 