Inquiries into the banking sector have arrived at a rate of about one a year for the past couple of decades, but has any been as feeble as this summer’s offering from the Competition and Markets Authority? That was the one that concluded that a few tweaks, like better price comparison websites and a voluntary cap on overdraft charges, might succeed where stiffer remedies had failed in the past to boost competition. Andrew Tyrie, chair of the Treasury select committee, who knows a thing or two about banking inquiries (he’s conducted a couple himself), is not the only person to think the CMA “dropped the catch”, as he put it. But Tuesday’s questioning-cum-torture of Alasdair Smith, who chaired the CMA’s investigation, was exquisitely done. As he waved a copy of Smith’s latest attempt to combat the criticism, Tyrie turned his headmasterly scorn to maximum: “This speech has an air of complacency greater than ever I have read from a regulator. It seems to say ‘don’t worry, let time go by, let’s build on existing practices, let’s use behavioural remedies of an incremental nature and we’ll be fine.’” Yes, that’s a fair summary. The only possible defence of the CMA is that structural remedies – like reversing the 2008 merger of Lloyds and HBOS – attract little political support. Royal Bank of Scotland, for example, has made the job of splitting off 300 branches resemble the labours of Hercules. Even so, the CMA could have been far bolder. The shame, as Tyrie argued, is that regulators have rarely had such an opportunity to improve the lot of banking customers. After the crash and scandals, the balance of power shifted away from the corporate lobbyists. The next inquiry – and there’s always another – can’t come soon enough. Here’s a group of winners from Brexit: those Shell shareholders who elect to receive their dividends in sterling. The oil giant, operating in an industry that runs on dollars, has kept its quarterly dividend unchanged all year at 47 cents a share but, after sterling’s fall, the progress looks much better in pennies: 32.9p in the first quarter, 35.3p in the second and, at current exchange rates, 38.4p for the third. That’s a handy improvement. It is also, however, a sideshow to the main event. Can Shell, after consuming BG Group at the start of the year, afford to sustain its dividend at such levels, in any currency? We’re not talking small change. With BG on board, the Shell dividend costs $15bn a year to maintain, which is a reason why many investors were sceptical about the £35bn purchase. Some 17% of shareholders voted against the deal, which counts as serious dissent. Shell executive Ben van Beurden has won round one. His gamble is looking better than it did in January. The price of a barrel of Brent has improved from $32 to $48, allowing Shell to boast that, unlike many rivals, it did not pay dividends out of debt in the latest quarter. Meanwhile, the company is doing its best to demonstrate that, just as it told the doubters, it can duck and dive. Another few billions have been hacked out of next year’s spending budget. Jolly good. But here’s why van Beurden, who staked his reputation on the BG deal, can’t relax yet. Debt is a colossal $78bn and financial gearing, at 29.2%, is bumping up against Shell’s self-imposed ceiling of 30%. Some $30bn-worth of assets are due to be sold, but talk of disposals is not the same as cold cash. In short, the dividend still looks hostage to the oil price. If a barrel costs $60 a barrel in a year’s time, Shell is out of the woods. But another year of sub-$50 prices would test the company’s ability to keep investors sweet while investing for the future. There is no point trying to predict the oil price but we can say this much: the shares looked a decent bet at £13 in January, as said here at the time, but today’s £22 looks too much, too soon. That dividend, yielding 7% in sterling terms, is not safe yet. Publicity stunts masquerading as serious petitions to government are a modern irritant. So it is encouraging that only 30,000 people have so far signed Hargreaves Lansdown’s attempt to get the government to flog a few Lloyds Banking Group shares to the general public at a discount. Chancellor Philip Hammond sensibly reversed his predecessor’s idea of selling shares at less than their market price. This annoyed Hargreaves, an investment platform, because it had 374,000 potential investors lined up, some of whom could become valuable customers for years. But the commercial self-interest behind the petition was so blatant it was offensive. If nine out of 10 of Hargreaves’s would-be Lloyds punters decline to sign, that’s a good thing. 