 Andy Murray is compiling a book. As yet it is not quite the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Tennis Galaxy, although judging by some of the comments made by local newspapers about Juan Ignacio Chela, Murray's first-round opponent tomorrow, it would not be altogether surprising if the Argentinian was listed there under the "ravenous bug-blatter beast of Trall". Chela has history in this city. He was fined heavily for spitting at Lleyton Hewitt, Murray's potential second-round opponent, at last year's Australian Open. The Spanish and the Argentinians have never been impressed by Hewitt's fist-clenching histrionics - more notable in his younger days - and Chela's less-than-friendly approach was symptomatic of a long-festering mutual hostility. Murray, who at last year's Wimbledon had his own little spat with Radek Stepanek and does not take kindly to any sort of gamesmanship on the opposite side of the net, conceded that Chela was not as bad as the Czech but "if it happens, it happens. It fires me up more if somebody is like that on court." There has, of course, never been a semblance of animosity between Murray and Tim Henman, quite the reverse, although it appeared that the young Scot was suitably fired up in their practice session yesterday afternoon. It left the British No1's forehead beaded in perspiration as he scurried around an outside court attempting, without a huge amount of success, to quell Murray's increasingly penetrative ground strokes. Murray famously defeated Henman in their first meeting in Basle last autumn and any outsider watching the two yesterday would have been under no illusion that the teenager has continued to keep the upper hand, for he was particularly brutal on the Henman serve. There was no doubt that when their respective coaches left the arena Mark Petchey looked more satisfied than Paul Annacone, with Henman later admitting he would have to play through the pain of his bad back here. Murray has not lost in the first round of an ATP or slam event since he teamed up with Petchey last summer, although his coach recognises the dangers here. "Chela does not miss many balls, his first serve is under-rated and he moves well. It will be bloody tough for Andy but Chela is the sort of player he will routinely have to beat in the future if he is to climb the rankings." Caution has become the by-word of the campaign in Murray's first Australian Open, a tournament where Henman and Greg Rusedski, missing this year with the birth of his first child imminent, have both had limited success, neither having ever progressed beyond the last 16. "Andy is still so young and the big splash he made last year has had both its upsides and downsides," said Petchey yesterday. "Unlike in other sports tennis players are expected to analyse their play in public before and after every match and this is obviously difficult when you are only 18 yearss old like Andy. People should not forget that only last May he was playing junior tennis and it will be a good 18 months to two years before he is playing his best." In this respect the Murray camp would be delighted to see Henman and Rusedski both prolong their respective careers as long as possible to take off a little of the mounting pressure, for at the moment there appears little likelihood of any other British player joining Murray in the top 100. All seven of the British - five men and two women - attempting to gain a place in the main draw here via qualification failed abjectly. David Felgate, the LTA performance director, promised much on his appointment nearly three years ago but there has been only minimal progress at the highest level. Britain may have more players in the top 300 than when he took over but it is a statistic of no great significance. Henman, Rusedski and Murray are the only three inside the top 100, the international benchmark, and it may not be long before Murray is left in splendid isolation. The book Murray is writing is a series of jottings about opponents and matches played, designed to be a reference and help in future meetings. "I kept one," said Petchey, "although Andy has a few more wins in it that me and it's a far happier read than mine." They are also compiling a DVD database with the help of television. "It is all part of the process of trying to do everything as well as we can." Murray worked on his physical training in South Africa during December - "Andy worked his arse off" - although his coach was at pains to point out that, because of the teenager's previous knee problems, all physical exertion had to be properly managed. "It's no good working Andy so hard that he breaks down. So many of the top players have had problems so Andy is no different. These next two years are crucial in terms of him becoming a top player. It's about dealing with problems and solving them and we will." For the moment, and for the foreseeable future, the Murray camp is anxious to dampen down the expectations and diminish the pressure. The youngster himself appeared a little subdued at the weekend, admitting that the pressure was already building on him to play well in each and every match. Yesterday Petchey did his level best to paint the broader picture. Tomorrow, against Chela, and with prospect of a match against Hewitt, the short-term canvas will again, no doubt, be viewed in minute detail. 