With just seven days to the release of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, the feverish speculation has been mounting. Which familiar faces might pop up? What is Darth Vader’s role, and why is Felicity Jones’s Jyn Erso so important to the Rebel Alliance? Here are six questions the new episode needs to have answered by the time the credits roll. Nobody but Disney, Lucasfilm and Edwards himself knows what kind of movie Rogue One might have been without the highly publicized reshoots that took place earlier this year, not to mention the studio’s decision to hire Tony Gilroy to oversee the film’s final edit. But if trailers are windows to the soul of a movie, or at least chopped-down visions of the film the marketing guys think most people want to see, then it’s clear Disney believes audiences want an uplifting Star Wars movie about triumph over evil in the face of almost impossible odds.  This makes perfect sense, as – hokey religions and ancient weapons aside – these elements are precisely what helped the original 1977 Star Wars movie find so much success. And given Disney has spent so much time and energy retooling the film, it would be a shock if the studio had not lightened the tone of the “dark war movie” still being pitched by Edwards.  This may not be such a bad thing. Star Wars movies will always be judged on their ability to intelligently balance dark and light motifs, as the saga works best as pulpy, knockabout space adventure rather than brooding sci-fi. Without the Kurosawan comic relief of R2-D2 and C-3PO, the original trilogy would have felt very different – though the trick did not work quite so well when George Lucas introduced bumbling Gungan clown Jar Jar Binks for the prequels. There are promising hints that the peerless Alan Tudyk was given permission to ad-lib furiously throughout the Rogue One shoot as moody new droid K-2SO, which should help lighten the mood.  Pardon me for cross-pollinating with another venerable long-running space saga, but Disney is trapped in the film-making equivalent of Star Trek’s famous Kobayashi Maru scenario – it can’t win – when it comes to the evil Sith Lord, and the debate over how much screen time he ought to be getting in Rogue One. On one hand, we all want to see as much Darth Vader as possible. On the other, we don’t want his presence to overwhelm the new plot, given Anakin Skywalker’s story has already been told.  Reports suggest the studio might have opted to show us more of Vader than we have ever seen before, but only in a literal sense. There is speculation on fan sites that the tube-like construct seen in trailers might be the Empire’s version of the Bacta tank used to help Luke Skywalker recover from his injuries at the end of Empire Strikes Back. Eagle-eyed fans have spotted what appears to be a mock up of a suit-less Vader in a recent behind the scenes featurette. Will we see the evil cyborg in full recuperation mode, perhaps even meeting with Emperor Palpatine to discuss the Empire’s ongoing nefarious ventures? Such a move might just be a glorified Easter egg, but it would be the equivalent of one the size of the Death Star. Much of Rogue One is said to be based on the planet Jedha, a kind of Mecca for followers of the Jedi. But might reimagining the Force along Judeo-Christian lines actually diminish its power? And as the only known practitioner on either side of the dark side/light side fence in this new timeline is presumably Vader himself, won’t less clued-up cinema-goers wonder what happened to all Star Wars’ trademark lightsaber battles?  Donnie Yen’s blind warrior-priest Chirrut Îmwe seems to be talking a lot about the Force in trailers, but as far as we know, he’s completely unable to wield it. To all intents and purposes then, Îmwe is little more than a Jedi fanboy, which seems somehow disappointing when fans of the space saga are used to seeing spectacular feats of telekinesis and even the odd spot of Force lightning. Then again, if Rogue One can keep audiences happy while giving them very little of what they might be expecting to see in a Star Wars film, it will have pulled off a spectacular feat – not to mention reinforcing the prestige of its core saga. Why have we never heard of Jyn Erso or any of her crew in any of the other Star Wars movies, four of which take place after Rogue One? The obvious answer is that nobody made it back alive from the mission to steal the plans to the Death Star. Erso and her team are the Bothans of their day, sacrificing themselves so that Luke Skywalker can take all the glory. Disney and Lucasfilm are keen to establish Rogue One as a self-contained story, rather than another episode in the seemingly limitless main saga. But that doesn’t suggest an awful amount of confidence in these new characters as potential icons in their own right. Moreover, the history of Star Wars tells us that cult figures can emerge from the most unlikely places. Who would have foreseen taciturn bounty hunter Boba Fett capturing the imagination of the public to such an extent that he recently almost got his own spinoff movie more than three decades after his debut in 1980’s The Empire Strikes Back? Let’s hope Edwards leaves room for similar unexpected breakout successes in Rogue One. The novel Rogue One: Catalyst has already fleshed out Erso’s early life with her father, the Robert Oppenheimer figure Galen (Mads Mikkelsen), and mother Lyra. But we don’t know so much about what she got up to since going on the run at the age of 15 and transforming into a sort-of plummy English-toned female Han Solo, nor why her behavior was so “reckless, aggressive and undisciplined” that the Rebel Alliance feels she requires “shackles” to keep her in line. There are suggestions in the novel that all the Ersos are in some manner Force-sensitive, though not to Jedi levels. And there has even been speculation that Jyn might be the mother of Rey, Daisy Ridley’s perky scavenger from The Force Awakens. Too neat a connection, perhaps, but it would certainly help establish Rogue One’s position within the wider Star Wars story arc, while adding a sense of symmetry to both the main saga and its debut spinoff. Speaking of which ... Edwards has said he hopes those who have never seen Star Wars will be inspired to watch the original trilogy by the end of the new installment. Rogue One is said to climax just 10 minutes before the beginning of 1977’s saga-opener. Will we get to see digital versions of Carrie Fisher’s Princess Leia and Peter Cushing’s Grand Moff Tarkin, as has been rumored? Might R2-D2, C-3PO and even Han Solo turn up? Once again, these might be little more than giant Easter eggs, but they would probably be enough to keep fans happy provided the main thrust of the narrative doesn’t disappoint. Conversely, if Rogue One itself is garbage, Edwards and his team could wheel out Luke Skywalker, Yoda and Obi-Wan Kenobi himself for a barn dance with Jabba the Hutt, Bib Fortuna and Shmi Skywalker without impressing us much. The new episode has been hyped up as a self-contained entry, so it ultimately needs to stand alone as a worthwhile addition to the Star Wars canon if it’s to be considered a genuine success. 