Digital Human (Radio 4) | iPlayerPlanet Money: When Women Stopped Coding | NPRRecode Decode | recode.net Codebreaker | marketplace.org Tuesday was Ada Lovelace Day. This is a relatively new official day to celebrate the achievements of women in Stem subjects (science, technology, engineering and maths), and especially computer science: Lovelace worked with Charles Babbage to create and program the first ever general-purpose computer. Inspired by this, I thought I’d have a quick look around for women-friendly tech audio. Women-friendly, of course, means men-friendly, in most cases. I don’t believe that every man out there is panicked by the idea that some tech types are penis-free. Still, this week, I’m looking for the women. First up, good old Digital Human is back for its 10th series. I often forget that this programme is about tech, rather than about today’s world in general. It’s like modern life, remixed. Presented by the wry and knowledgeable Aleks Krotoski, this week’s show concerned the internet in its physical form. So, not the information, but the actual, real-life, human-made-and-installed architecture that gets the information from one place to another. We heard from reporters, authors, artists, professors, all of whom had taken it upon themselves to find the physical places of the internet. Data centres. Information banks. Internet pipes. Andrew Blum described being in the sleepy fishing community in Portugal that was the only witness to an internet connection actually arriving. A man in a wetsuit walked out of the sea. He brought with him a messenger line, which was connected to a small boat, which was connected to a cable-laying ship, which was connected to 5,000 miles of undersea cable, waiting “for the digital tap to be opened” as Krotoski put it. “That diver, wading ashore, was literally dragging the internet behind him.” Amazing. In the tech-friendly world of podcasts, I found a fascinating old episode (No 576) of NPR’s Planet Money called When Women Stopped Coding. The answer was 1984, information fans. Before that, a graph that tracked the interest of women in computer science showed an increase that paralleled the interest of men. But in 1984, there was a levelling out, and then a drop. It was very specific. You should listen to the programme to find out why this happened, but, as a hint, it involved advertising, Hollywood movies and home computers. All of them conspired to make a new normal that excluded women from Lovelacing. But, even more interestingly, it didn’t take too much effort from US colleges to bring women back in… Other than these, you could try Recode Decode, where the formidable and fabulously named journalist Kara Swisher interviews heavyweights in tech and other areas (her most recent interview is with Jon Favreau, Iron Man director, on virtual reality). Swisher is brusque and a little charmless, but she knows her stuff. General interest geeky podcasts are numerous, of course: Reply All is still one of the best. And I quite like Codebreaker, which takes an aspect of technology every week (internet porn, data tracking, the software update) and asks: is it evil? Occasionally it needs slightly sharper editing, but it’s an entertaining listen. Enough of tech. By far the most powerful Ada Lovelace Day interview involving women and how they move through contemporary life was given by Laura Bates, from Everyday Sexism, on the Today programme. After Donald Trump’s “grab her by the pussy” tape, Barton was invited into Today’s 8.50 slot – traditionally a light, end-of-show time – to discuss, as she thought, Trump’s appalling sexual bullying. Instead, she was asked to talk about whether poor ickle men can ever get it right when they talk about women in private. She reacted with dignity and passion, dismantling Justin Webb’s pathetic “we want to be able to give compliments” argument. But, God, I hope there was some shouting during the programme debrief afterwards. Whose idea was it to conflate compliments with sexual assault? What were the producers thinking? (Also, if you watch the clip online, have a look at the body language of Webb and John Humphrys. Defensive doesn’t begin to cover it.) 