 Martina Hingis became the latest casualty of the "graveyard of champions" as she was bundled out of Wimbledon by unseeded American Laura Granville on Court Two. Ninth seed Hingis, who won Wimbledon in 1997, had been struggling to recover from the hip injury which forced her to miss the French Open, and had to save two match points to get past British teenager Naomi Cavaday in the first round. Today she had no answers for world number 77 Granville, going down 6-4, 6-2 in her first-ever defeat by the American. It was all over in just 66 minutes as Hingis dropped serve three times and failed to win a single break point. Granville, 26, who is making a sixth successive appearance at Wimbledon, now takes on 18-year-old Dutch player Michaella Krajicek to see if she can reach the fourth round for the first time in her career. Earlier Serena Williams had cruised menacingly into the fourth round of Wimbledon with a 43-minute victory over Milagros Sequera.  The American, a two-time winner at SW19, was never in any trouble against an opponent who looked completely out of her depth on Centre Court. Sequera put up little resistance as seventh seed Williams romped to a 6-1, 6-0 victory to set up a meeting with tenth seed Daniela Hantuchova, who beat Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia 2-6, 6-3, 6-4. Jelena Jankovic had things rather tougher than Serena, but managed to see off a spirited challenge by 25th seed Lucie Safarova to book a place in the last 16 of the ladies' singles. In a dramatic encounter lasting two and a half hours, Jankovic clinched a 5-7, 7-6, (7-4) 6-2 victory, recovering from the loss of the opening set to eventually overcome her opponent. The win continued an impressive run by the third-seeded Jankovic, who has now notched up 53 victories this year, but Safarova earned a standing ovation from the Court One crowd after battling gamely to overcome a knee injury sustained in the previous round against Eleni Daniilidou.  Jankovic will now play 18th seed Marion Bartolli, who today beat Israel's Shahar Peer 6-3, 6-2, in the next round. 