Theresa May, Michael Gove, Stephen Crabb, Andrea Leadsom and Liam Fox are all in contention to succeed David Cameron 
Peter Walker 
 After David Cameron resigned last week, Tory figures who led the campaign for Brexit quickly emerged as the favourites to replace him as leader of the party and, by extension, prime minister. But after almost a week of political upheaval, the confirmed candidates in the upcoming leadership election are far from expected. Following a tumultuous 24 hours during which the odds-on favourite, Boris Johnson, withdrew from the running, the nominations are finally in. The 1922 Committee announced five official candidates. Who are they, what do we know about them and where do they stand? Age: 59 Born: Eastbourne, Sussex. Her father was an Anglican vicar. Educated: A mix of state and private schools, then Oxford University. Pre-politics experience: Before becoming an MP in 1997 she worked at the Bank of England and at a thinktank, and was a local councillor. Strengths: Her record and perceived seriousness. May has survived six years as home secretary, a a job that has killed off other recent careers. In a period of chaos, she is seen very much as a safe pair of hands and deliberately stepped back from the divisive EU referendum campaign. Weaknesses: Her status as a remain supporter, even a very mild one, could count against her with party members. She has struggled in the past to articulate a wider vision.  On Brexit: Announcing her leadership bid on Thursday, May said: “I will create a new government department responsible for conducting Britain’s negotiation with the EU.” After staying almost silent during weeks of Tory infighting, May was keen to show she would back the result. How liberal? Not very. She has taken a tough line on immigration, and until now wanted to pull the UK out of the European convention on human rights. She is also very keen on pushing through the investigatory powers bill, known as the snooper’s charter. Pub fact: One of her Desert Island Discs choices was Abba’s Dancing Queen; she said she would want “something to jump up and down to”. Age: 48 Born: First called Graham, he was born to a young, unmarried mother in Edinburgh and put up for adoption. Four months later he was adopted by the Goves. His father ran a fish processing business and his mother was a laboratory worker. Educated: The fee-paying Robert Gordon’s College in Aberdeen (on a scholarship) and Oxford. Pre-politics experience: A journalist, firstly for Aberdeen’s Press and Journal, then the Times and others. He became an MP in 2005. Strengths: A spotless pro-Brexit record, having been a figurehead of the leave campaign, which will appeal to Eurosceptic members. Gove is also a fluent speaker, good at presenting ideas, and a politician with public recognition. He’s not Boris Johnson. Weaknesses: A hugely divisive education secretary, hailed in supportive newspapers but loathed by many teachers and education leaders. His main adviser, Dominic Cummings, was despised by some civil servants. He has said in public on multiple occasions that he does not believe himself qualified to be PM. He’s not Boris Johnson, and will be seen as the assassin of the former mayor’s ambitions. On Brexit: “I’m glad these organisations aren’t on my side. I think people in this country have had enough of experts,” Gove said of economists’ warnings during the campaign. It’s a quote that he might live to regret given the post-Brexit slump. How liberal? A mixed bag. Socially liberal, and cheered by reformers for his record as a reforming justice secretary. Against that, he has expressed very interventionist views on Islam and foreign policy, especially in his slightly hysterical 2006 book Celsius 7/7. Pub fact: As well as taking dense history books to read on holiday, Gove loves Wagner, and regularly attends the Bayreuth festival. Age: 43 Born: In Inverness, but brought up in Pembrokeshire, mainly by a single mother on a council estate. Educated: Local state schools, Bristol University and London Business School. Pre-politics experience: Elected in 2005, he had a range of jobs before entering the House of Commons, including as a parliamentary officer for a charity and an election observer in Bosnia. Strengths: Able to talk about politics in a way that sounds almost like a human being. Crabb’s background will help him argue that he could reconnect his party with poorer communities. He was seen as an effective Welsh secretary, earning himself a promotion in March to become work and pensions secretary.  Weaknesses: MPs might see him as relatively untested and inexperienced, and barring a sudden surge he could struggle to reach the final two on the ballot. Even if he reached the members vote stage, his status as a fervent remain advocate would count against him.  On Brexit:  “It isn’t good enough for those who say vote leave to shrug their shoulders and kind of say: ‘Well, it’s going to be all right on the night.’ No, I think that’s a disservice to the British public.” How liberal? One of Crabb’s only memorable political interventions in the last parliament was his vote against gay marriage. A practising Christian, he now says he is “very happy with the outcome” of the gay marriage bill.  Pub fact: He spent part of a pre-university gap year working as a labourer at Newport docks and living in a tent. Age: 53 Born: Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire. Educated: A girls’ grammar school in Tonbridge, Kent, then Warwick University. Pre-politics experience: Before entering parliament in 2010, she had a long career in banking and finance, ending with a senior job at fund manager Invesco Perpetual. Strengths: Very, very strongly pro-Brexit. She was one of the main MPs publicly supporting Gove and Johnson, and was widely praised for her interventions in the televised referendum debates. She has a strong background outside politics, with financial experience that may steady the markets.  Weaknesses: Although a minister – in the Department of Energy and Climate Change – Leadsom is fairly low profile and would seem an outsider to get beyond the first round or two of voting. If members anticipate an early general election, they may worry she does not have the name recognition to lead the Tories into a national vote. On Brexit:  “My family lived in Portugal for 10 years, I love the Germans, I love Swedish food, I speak French. I love Europe. What I hate is the EU and the way it is destroying such a fabulous continent.” How liberal? She has talked in the past of how immigration could “overwhelm” Britain, and abstained in the gay marriage vote, saying she backed the idea in principle but felt there was not a mandate for it. Pub fact: Her brother-in-law, a banker who lives in Guernsey, has donated more than £800,000 to the Conservative party since she was elected. Age: 53 Born: East Kilbride, where he was brought up in a council house. Educated: State schools and Glasgow University, where he studied medicine. Pre-politics experience: He was a GP and an army medical officer before being elected to the Commons in 1992. Strengths: Vastly experienced, with more than two decades in parliament and considerable frontbench experience. He is a veteran EU opponent, all the way back to the John Major era. Weaknesses: He is generally prefixed as “the disgraced former defence secretary” after resigning from the coalition government in 2011 when details emerged about a lobbyist and friend, Adam Werrity, who travelled with him on official business. Fox contested the leadership in 2005 and lost in the second round of voting. On Brexit: “It has something of a peasants’ revolt about it, and it is coming up from the grassroots of the country, where people are saying we don’t want to be told that that issue of migration and taxation are irrelevant.” How liberal? Not very. He called gay marriage “absurd” and “social engineering”. He pushed for the Guardian to be prosecuted over the Edward Snowden leak stories.  Pub fact: His reputed friends have included, over the years, the actor and singer Natalie Imbruglia, the EastEnders star Michelle Collins and – it was reported they used to write to each other – Mother Theresa.  