 Andy Murray dispatched the player he described as possibly "the greatest of all time" and then bridled at questions about his mental strength. The Scot defeated Roger Federer 6-7, 6-3, 6-4 before hitting out at critics who had queried his temperament for big games in the wake of his first-round defeat at the Australian Open. "I have been really mentally weak for such a long time," he said sarcastically. "Not holding up under pressure situations. I think I have shown tonight that's not going to be an issue." He saw his win as coming not so much from his tactics, which were based on patience early on, nor on improved fitness, but on his mentality. "The most important thing is to believe you can win the match," Murray said. "I have watched him so many times and he's a special player - possibly the greatest of all time. "Too many times early in a tournament guys try to play too well [but] it's important to stay patient and not make rash decisions early in the match. I definitely didn't do that today and that was the key." Murray was remarkably low-key during and after yesterday's Dubai Open first- round match, hardly celebrating victory at all and explaining that he did not want to get too emotional early in the tournament because he "needed to refocus". Federer, who claimed that Murray had not developed his game since their first meeting and had too passive a style, said: "I was surprised. I don't think he's changed it since we first played in the Bangkok final [September 2005]. "So it works for him but he will have to grind very hard over the next few days if he plays this way. It works because he beat me. But he stands way behind the court and he does a lot of running, and he waits for mistakes from an opponent. I made a lot of mistakes today but you also have to win points. It will often be difficult if you wait for guys to miss." Murray responded equably: "If you had watched my game against [Rafael] Nadal at the Australian Open last year you would have seen me attacking and taking a lot of risks because that's the correct way to play against him. But against Federer I don't think that's the right way. I'm not going to play that way against someone who defends as well as Federer." 