Google, Facebook and Apple are improving their news output by doing deals with cash-strapped media firms, but this raises fears of a conflict of interest Contact author 
 What should we make of recent overtures by tech firms to the news industry? Is this good news for news, citizens and the robustness of the tech industry? The industry has always been defined by technology, from its Gutenbergian roots to the digital, social and mobile journalism of today, but it is the accelerated pace of change that is now a greater challenge. In large media organisations, where institutional change is difficult, many have been slow to understand the potential and threat of technology – which can provide new audiences and formats, yet also unprecedented competition. It is a thrilling, if unsettling, time. The tech industry is largely indifferent to journalism, concerned more with engineering, expansion and revenue than the vagaries of complex editorial demands. The insistence of many firms that they are platforms rather than publishers – thus avoiding the responsibility that comes with being a publisher – is testament to that. Journalism was simply content and tech firms didn’t create services that could have blown publishers out of the water because they had bigger priorities. Yet in the past 10 years, tensions have become less reactive and more subtle. In 2004, publishing bosses stood up at industry events and called search firms “parasites” and “brand killers”. Today, they mostly prefer to be courted by tech firms – bar the odd rogue aggressor on the continent, which still insist on trying to sue for some kind of loss of earnings in a bitter retrospective bet against the future. We see commercial divisions working in secret with tech firms to build news products. In the past three months, we’ve had three such projects. Apple announced its revamped News app at a developer conference last week. Replacing the ineffectual Newsstand app, the service presents articles from multiple publishers on one front page, personalising content according to the behaviour of the reader. It looks and feels like Flipboard (a news service for those who have the time to spend curating news) but will allow publishers to claim all revenue from related advertising in the app. Facebook introduced “instant articles” in May, which gave media organisations a way to publish some showcase articles directly in the newsfeed, rather than as selective “shared” articles with a summary. And in April, Google announced a “digital news initiative” to invest €150m in product development, training and funding independent innovation projects. Why the scepticism? Well, Google’s initiative comes amid growing pressure from European regulators over its monopoly status, including its cack-handed treatment of the “right to be forgotten” issue, in which it selectively represented people’s requests to have a say in how its search results represent them. In addition, while the €150m might not go straight to publishers, it’s a hefty sweetener for an industry struggling with the dominance of new tools and its own revenue battles. For Google’s hierarchy of engineers and executives, however, any project with low engineering status is unlikely to find an enthusiastic sponsor, hence the small but devoted audience for Google Reader being let down when the company could find no one to run it and shut it down in July 2013. Facebook? Perhaps more than the others, it has now acknowledged the difference between content and journalism. Saturated with clickbait headlines and cheap quizzes, viral news has become a parody and even Facebook has realised the game is up. It is trying to correct its weird presentation of news articles in its newsfeed, where readers are rewarded for continuing to scroll, a like-and-share reward system that doesn’t reward reading the article and an in-app browser that meant stories would sometimes take 20 seconds to load. And for Apple, news is just more grist for its mill, another product to crank out. Thankfully there were no social features in the first version, given its failures previously. Yet what is personalised news without social recommendation? It is critical publishers reach new audiences on these platforms – recent research by Pew Research Centre found 60% of generation Y in the US get their political news from Facebook. “Off platform” publishing is now a priority for news organisations, nurturing new audiences with reporting published exclusively on these new platforms. So, in a world where these platforms are so important, publishers also need to be talking to tech firms about how platforms are developed. In what feels like a sign of these companies maturing, there has been a mini-renaissance in the appreciation of journalism over content, recognising the importance of funding reporting that scrutinises those with power. Technology isn’t neutral, but created by teams with their own goals and prejudices and that technology changes our behaviour, which is true of Facebook, Apple and Google. And so publishers need to be part of that process. But the pervasiveness of those platforms is also what presents publishers with their biggest challenge; that while working with these firms on one hand they are responsible for scrutinising them. Regulators are only beginning to grapple with the legal and regulatory challenge and governments still aren’t tech literate. So in an age of unprecedented power, who will hold technological power to account if not the press? And that’s harder to do when you’re helping build the power. 