 Cricket loves nothing more than to create an air of mystery, to foster its reputation as the most cerebral of sports, and it has achieved that emphatically in Nottingham where the build-up to today's third Test has been less about England against New Zealand than "The Stands That Make It Swing v The Balls That Prefer To Go Straight". Pit the Trent Bridge stands, with their supposed creation of a micro-climate that makes the ball boomerang, against the Dukes ball, which swings for about half-an-hour then goes soft and loses interest, and the sub-plot will have physicists chasing the touts down Radcliffe Road in a desperate attempt to see miracles of science play out before their eyes. There has even been an imaginative marketing attempt to add a third element in the form of new-fangled New Zealand cricket trousers which are supposed to help the ball to keep its shine, so prolonging the swing. But this proved to be largely spurious. The New Zealand team have yet to wear the microshine trousers and, according to their captain, Daniel Vettori, "we are not wearing them at Trent Bridge". England's captain, Michael Vaughan, did not seem unduly concerned in any event. "Yorkshire have those trousers and it hasn't helped them," he said.  The Dukes balls have had bowlers grumbling all summer, so much so that mind games are being played out in the middle, with bowlers desperate to persuade umpires that the ball has gone out of shape, so gaining a replacement old ball which is taken from 2007 stocks. "There has been a lot of talk about swing bowling," said Vettori, "but we are very confident and anyway we have found on this tour that the Dukes balls aren't swinging as much. The ball swings for a little bit then the bowlers have to go back to lines that aren't standard swinging lines. When we have them replaced for one of last year's balls then it has started swinging.  "There is almost a skill in getting the ball replaced so you can get the '07 ball swinging a lot more than the '08 one. If guys have to go through an innings with the '08 ball then it might not swing as much. There are some deformities in them. I am not sure why they are bruising up so quickly but they are, and when a ball is out of shape it doesn't swing." Along with the science come the statistics. Trent Bridge this season has encouraged a rush of computer printouts. "The lads have been saying that 84% have been caught behind the bat, so that suggests that the ball moves about a bit," said Vaughan. "We all realise that it's going to be a swinging kind of week. "It is a great opportunity for the swing bowlers to show us all how good they are on this kind of pitch. For two of the guys it's their home ground and Jimmy Anderson is very exciting when he swings the ball and he should get lots of opportunities to do that this week." In this season's County Championship games played at Trent Bridge, the average first-innings score is 213 and the ball has swung appreciably. The statistic is somewhat exaggerated by Nottinghamshire's flimsy top six, and a poor championship pitch against Lancashire, but England's desire to register 400-plus in their first innings might have to be tempered here. New Zealand, meanwhile, last night named Brendon McCullum in their squad and confirmed that he will keep wicket despite a back ailment. That means Daniel Flynn, who was hit in the face by Anderson at Old Trafford, will play today. 