Leader faces parliamentary party for first time since re-election, as new poll gives Conservatives 17-point lead  
Anushka Asthana and 
Jessica Elgot 
 Jeremy Corbyn was challenged about his position on Brexit and questioned over his sacking of Rosie Winterton as chief whip, as he faced his party’s MPs for the first time since his re-election as leader. The Labour leader was pressed by colleagues after the party’s shadow secretary of state for exiting the EU, Keir Starmer, appeared to set out a different line on immigration policy than the shadow home secretary, Diane Abbott. A spokesman for Corbyn told journalists outside the meeting that Starmer’s call for immigration numbers to be reduced was not at odds with Abbott or Corbyn himself. “Jeremy has made clear chasing after impossible targets or caps doesn’t work and inflames divisions,” he said. “But the case he was making during the referendum campaign was for decisive action against the undercutting of wages and the exploitation of migrant workers. If you take effective action … you will reduce numbers.” This came after Labour MPs said they were not clear on the party’s position on Brexit in advance of an opposition day debate on Wednesday, with Barry Sheerman asking Corbyn: “What’s the plan, Stan?” Corbyn’s response was not satisfactory for some of those present, with one MP heckling: “What’s the line? What’s the line?” Emma Reynolds called on the leader to consider taking a more robust position on freedom of movement because of the demands of constituents across the Midlands and the north of England. The MPs also asked their leader about a Guardian/ICM opinion poll, which gives the Conservatives a 17-point lead at the end of the party conference season. The survey places Theresa May’s party on 43% while Labour slips to 26%, with Ukip on 11% and the Lib Dems on 8%. One MP said the meeting felt like “Groundhog Day” and they were not convinced by Corbyn’s call for unity. During a tribute to Winterton, whom he has replaced with Nick Brown in his post-victory reshuffle, the Labour leader was heckled by MP John Spellar who shouted: “Why did you sack her then?” Another MP, Jess Phillips, challenged the leader for speaking at an anti-racism rally linked to the Socialist Workers party. Some MPs were angry after they felt Corbyn questioned whether Russia had been involved in the bombing of a UN aid convoy in Syria that resulted in the deaths of a number of civilians. MPs said Corbyn referred to an attack that was “apparently” carried out by the Russians. Angela Smith MP, who asked about the issue, said: “It is deeply concerning that Jeremy is unwilling to face up to the role that Putin’s Russia is playing in Syria. The recent criminal atrocities committed in Aleppo make the case for an effective international response overwhelming and Labour needs to show moral leadership on what is an intolerable situation.” However, Corbyn’s spokesman denied that he had held back on the issue. “The evidence is often very murky but he said that the evidence appears to show that Russia was involved in the bombing, if not Russia the Syrian airforce, and all evidence appears to show it was a war crime.  “He’s looking at real evidence rather than the rhetoric. He has condemned all atrocities, he has condemned Russia, he opposes all forms of foreign intervention in the conflict.” The spokesman said he had not heard Corbyn use the words “apparent” or “alleged” in reference to Russia’s bombing. “There are many, many other atrocities taking place as well.” He added that Corbyn had used the meeting to push for unity, but said MPs were having to adjust to the size of the leader’s second mandate.  “The majority of Labour MPs are looking for ways to work with the leadership. It’s in everybody’s interests. That’s the clear mood at the meeting tonight. There have been a number of stormy meetings and this doesn’t even register on the low level of the Richter scale,” he said. The decision to remove Winterton was taken because of a clear need to reset the relationship with the parliamentary Labour party, he added. “After a year, it’s necessary for that to be reset in a way that represents his mandate. It’s time to move to a new one.” Meanwhile, a leading thinktank is preparing to launch an initiative examining what people who voted remain believed about “taking back control” of their lives. Research from the New Economics Foundation found that the majority of remain voters felt they were lacking in power, with 62% saying the world is run by “the few people in power and there is not much the ordinary citizen can do about it”. Just 27% of remain voters agreed with a statement saying, “The average citizen can have an influence on government decisions”, while 55% specifically identified big business and corporate elites as having “too much control over their lives”. At an event attended by the former Labour leader Ed Miliband and greater Manchester mayoral candidate Andy Burnham, the thinktank will launch a “new agenda” that looks beyond Westminster to institutions such as devolved government, forward-looking businesses, and trade union and community-led campaigns. 