The business select committee had to battle to get the Sports Direct boss to talk, then wondered if he was ever going to stop Contact author 
 Mike Ashley walked in surrounded by several anxious minders. Having failed in their efforts to keep the Sports Direct boss away from the clutches of the business select committee, they had opted for damage limitation instead. Stick to the plan, Mike. Say as little as possible. “Is that a Newcastle United tie?” inquired the committee chairman, Iain Wright. Ashley said nothing, staring blankly ahead. “When do you think your six-month review into working practices at Sports Direct will be complete?” Wright persisted. “Never.” “Never?” “It will always be a work in progress.” His minders gave each other a quick thumbs up. Five minutes in and so far, so good. And then it all began to go hideously wrong, as Ashley was unable to resist channeling his stream of unconsciousness. “Obviously the bottlenecks at security were wrong and I’m sorry that some people got paid less than the minimum wage and I would like to promise that there won’t be bottlenecks at security in the future,” he declared. “But there might be a thunderstorm which could cause a bottleneck, though I don’t know why a thunderstorm might cause a bottleneck but I’m just making it up.” With Ashley in full rant, it was hard for the MPs on the select committee to get a word in edgeways. “The thing is I didn’t build Sports Direct, it built me and one moment I was sailing a dinghy and then I found myself in charge of a tanker and I don’t know why I’m here because I’m not an expert on employment matters but if you are saying are there things I could have done better then yes there are and no I won’t talk to Unite more than once a year because I know that I can do a better job for my employees than a union.” he said, before finally gulping for air. “Mr Ashley does dine with his workers in the canteen three times a week,” Keith Bishop, his PR man interrupted. He didn’t reveal what they talked about over the eight-course tasting menu. “I’m not saying people getting slagged off over the Tannoy doesn’t exist, not in a never scenario but not in an unreasonable scenario,” Ashley continued. “If we get things wrong we deserve the cane and I’m 100% unaware of employees being offered permanent contracts in return for sexual favours, but can you be certain there is no sexual harassment at Sainsbury’s because I can’t but maybe they are better at dealing with it than us simple as that fellas.” Ashley looked up and suddenly clocked there were some female MPs in the room. “I mean not just fellas girls, fellas sorry.” Labour’s Peter Kyle then threw in a curve ball. “Do you think you are a kind man?’ he asked. As Bishop started to list Ashley’s many philanthropic tendencies, Kyle shut him up. “I’m not quite sure what you’re doing here.” Ashley looked to his right and concluded much the same thing. “I’m not Santa Claus but I am kind to the right kind of people and obviously I don’t want Sports Direct staff going off and getting pissed in public so I’m thinking out loud here that maybe we could train them in alcoholism and should we have six strikes and you’re out well that depends maybe we should make it 27.” “Do you think it’s unreasonable,” Kyle interrupted. “You’ve answered your own question Peter if it’s unreasonable then it’s unreasonable look you’re pushing at an open door but you’re giving me so many things to do that I would be lying if I said I could promise to get them all done in six months or even a year there are days when I’m off my game.” “Could you explain why only 20% of you staff are on full-time contracts?” asked Labour’s Paul Blomfield. “Look don’t spoil it Paul up till now everything in this room has been positive and I want to be positive so don’t be negative I am here to make a difference regardless of whether I should have come which is another question and my problem is how am I going to find someone that will get me a better income.” “I think Mr Ashley meant to say outcome,” said Bishop. “Just one last thing,” said Wright. “Could you comment on Sir Philip Green and whether you would have liked to buy BHS?” “That’s beyond the remit of this inquiry,” said Bishop firmly, determined to do something to justify his fee. “My client’s comment will be making no comment.” Wright seemed happy enough with that. But Ashley wasn’t. “It’s no good I can’t keep my mouth shut,” he burbled. “Did I want to buy BHS, 100% I wanted to buy BHS. It was my dream to buy BHS.” He was still talking as the committee room emptied for lunch. 