Ukip finds MEP Mike Hookem did not start row that left Woolfe in hospital, but EU parliament president reports pair to police 
Jessica Elgot 
 The Ukip MEP Mike Hookem has escaped suspension from the party over an altercation that left his fellow MEP Steven Woolfe unconscious and hospitalised, after an internal report concluded there was no evidence suggesting he had instigated the scuffle. The party’s report said that it was Woolfe, a former Ukip leadership challenger who has since left the party, and not Hookem, who started the incident. Woolfe had invited his colleague outside a meeting room in the European parliament in Strasbourg to settle their differences “man to man”, it stated. “Mr Woolfe instigated the altercation by suggesting that he and Mr Hookem deal with their differences ‘man to man’,” the report found. “It is reasonable to assume Mr Woolfe meant for it to be a physical altercation, as it had been perceived by a clear majority of members in attendance.”  Allies of Woolfe, who claimed he was struck on the head by Hookem and had since made a police complaint, said the report had political motivation and suggested that the decision to give Hookem a formal reprimand rather than suspension was unduly lenient. The report, written by the party chairman, Paul Oakden, said no witnesses had seen what had taken place after the pair left a heated meeting where MEPs confronted Woolfe over his admission that he had considered defecting to the Conservatives but had then decided to run for the party leadership. No disciplinary action can be taken against Woolfe, who left the party shortly after the incident, saying Ukip was ungovernable and in a death spiral. “He has not accepted any responsibility nor has he apologised for his involvement in the incident,” the report said. “Had Mr Woolfe not collapsed later that day, we may never have known that the altercation took place at all. However, as chairman, I’m appalled that such a situation could arise between two of our most high-profile representatives and I have strongly considered suspension as a possible course of action.” But Oakden said the party had decided to issue a formal warning, rather than suspend Hookem: “Mr Hookem, whilst foolish, was not the instigator of this incident or subsequent press coverage and as such cannot be held principally responsible for either taking place.” Recalling the circumstances of the incident, the report said: “It is clear that a majority of members from the delegation shared very serious concerns over the allegations regarding Mr Woolfe’s possible defection.” The majority of those present also told the investigation they had seen Woolfe remove his jacket in preparation for an altercation, a claim strenuously denied by his friends who said police had evidence to the contrary. “Woolfe alleged that he had ‘received a blow’ from Hookem. Hookem denied that either man had attempted to strike the other,” the report found. MEPs in the room saw Woolfe fall through a doorway as another MEP went to open it, striking his head on a ledge. “As the MEP moved for the handle, they confirmed that the door was opened quickly from inside the room and that Mr Woolfe came tumbling out backwards,” the report said, adding it was “unlikely” he had been pushed by Hookem. “MEP A confirmed that Mr Hookem looked “bemused”, with his arms by his side and was standing some feet from the door. While it is possible that Mr Woolfe could have been pushed through the door by Mr Hookem, there is no evidence to confirm this.” Woolfe later collapsed and was taken to hospital in Strasbourg. He had two seizures and was kept in hospital for several days. After his treatment, he told the Daily Mail that Hookem “came at me and landed a blow”. But members told Ukip’s investigation that they “heavily questioned” Woolfe’s version of events. “It is clear that the events surrounding this altercation have bought great shame on the parties involved,” the report said. “The behaviour of both Mr Woolfe and Mr Hookem falls far below what we would expect from any member of our party, particular those who hold such high office.” A source close to Woolfe said it was clear that Martin Schulz, president of the European parliament, had accepted Woolfe’s version of events and that independent medical experts recruited by French police had found bruising consistent with a blow to the face. “He sees Ukip’s report as a political one, and he’s surprised it’s not even more negative but it’s now a criminal matter for the police,” one ally said. Schulz announced on Wednesday that he had asked French authorities to investigate the case, after an internal parliamentary committee failed to reach a verdict about the disputed events. The case has been referred to the general prosecutor’s office, which will lead a police investigation, an EU parliament source said. 