Is Slack slacking? The chat app couldn’t handle Uber’s relatively small workforce. Is this a serious failing or just a bump in the road for the $3.8bn company? 
 What happens when two darlings of the American tech scene meet in the workplace? It seems that magic emphatically does not happen – at least if the parting of ways between Slack and Uber is anything to go by. The New York Times reports that the fancy chat app (latest valuation: $3.8bn) didn’t play nicely with the fancy minicab app (latest valuation: $62.5bn): “Recently, the ride-hailing service Uber dropped Slack because the service could not handle the thousands of Uber employees trying to communicate simultaneously, according to people who work at both companies.” Slack is hugely popular among the small teams of developers who make up the core of its user base. Its extensibility pushes it above older chat clients, allowing users to easily build plugins that can do anything from automatically posting new versions of code, to suggesting alternate headlines for articles based on search interest. Similarly, if you only need a chat solution to co-ordinate your 44 interns, Slack is significantly easier to set up than a dedicated IRC client.  But much of the company’s heady valuation has been based on the assumption that, as it grows, it will enter the much larger enterprise market, where businesses with hundreds of thousands of employees buy licenses for millions of dollars. That could prove tricky if Slack can’t handle the relatively small number of employees Uber has. But there’s always another possibility. Slack was founded by Stewart Butterfield, a man famous for accidentally starting companies. Flickr, his first success, grew out of the seeds of a failed online game called Game Neverending, while Slack itself was initially created to enable the team behind Butterfield’s second failed online game, Glitch, to communicate.  So could Slack itself pivot? It may not be the intended use, but there’s a growing community using the chat app to build their own closed-off social networks. From attendees of the hip digital conference XOXO, to the 1,500 people who paid £10 to enter the TechLondon Slack, users are drawn by the ability to have the sort of freewheeling discussions that used to be common on Twitter, without the threat of random interlopers. Though that’s unlikely to make it billions from massive corporations.  