 Morning, I'll be with you in just a minute, unlike the cricket, which may not be with you all day. If you didn't think summer had arrived last week, when the country was swathed in sunshine and all those pairs of skinny white legs were protruding from pairs of shorts, and ice-cream trucks across the country had come out of storage, well you can be sure it's here now. Because it's May 15 and the time for the first Test of the year. And it's raining. The skies are grey, and the umbrellas are out, and some people are really regretting chosing to wear sandals on their walk to work this morning. And frankly it's all a little bit depressing isn't it? I mean damn it, it's really bitterly irritating. The covers are on at Lord's and we've no news on when play might start. Sigh. Well, as we already knew, England look like this: Cook, Strauss, Vaughan (capt), Pietersen, Bell, Collingwood, Ambrose (wkt), Broad, Sidebottom, Panesar, Anderson. So. That's that. In the meantime I'm off to discover what Duncan Fletcher has to say in the first of his Guardian columns, and I suggest you do the same. Yes, I was surprised too. Well I've held you off for long enough, here's the first email of the summer, from John Starbuck: "Good morning. Old Lag 49 reporting in, to observe that here in Yorkshire we have a breezy but definitely sunny day, not that it helps." And indeed, here's that reliably shameless self-publicist Keith Flett, of the Beard Liberation Front, to fill that void:  Good news of a kind: there'll be an inspection at 11.45, and, if the rain stops, I'm sure we'll have play quite soon simply because the Lord's outfield is so efficient at drainage. Change not good, me no like change, to paraphrase Jim Davey: "Aaargh - what have you done to the OBO - it's hideous. It's like goingto visit your Gran in rural Gloucestershire and finding out they'veturned it into Vegas..." And while we're on the subject of the brave new world of the future, we will have a follow it on the sly pop-up, and we will have a full scorecard, just as soon as we've fixed some technical problems. And Richard O'Hagan may well have started a caption competition of sorts: "You know you are in for a dull day's cricket when even Gary Naylor can't be bothered to write in." True that. Oh look Richard, you spoke to soon: "With Lord's draining quicker than Gazza's minibar (is Gazza comic or tragic this week?) play must be imminent. So can I start the "Bring Back Hoggy" campaign now? Aren't these conditions perfect for the er... yeoman seamer?" And that, yes, who else could it be but... G Naylor. Oh yeah,you might have noticed I'm a little over-obsessed with embedding youtube clips into OBO now that they've gifted me with capability to do so. So umm, if that's annoying you in any way, let me know. And Jon Hall has done just that: "Darn right it's annoying! Don't get me wrong - still love the written meanderings. Is it because the youth of today can't read that you're keen to use loud, flashing video?" No, Jon, it's because I'm lazy. Huzzah!  We've had a toss and the news is that England have won, and chose to bowl. Play will start at 12.20 and run through to 1.30pm. It's going to be hell out there for New Zealand this morning. Damp, overcast, and a fruitless hour-and-ten to play. Oh boy, anyone care for a prediction? Three down by lunch? And here's the team doing it's best not to look to much like lambs out to slaughter (goodness I'm asking for it now aren't I?): Redmond, How, Marshall, Flynn, Taylor, Oram, McCullum, Vettori, Martin, Southee, Mills. That top six has a truly pathetic total of 51 caps between them, and 32 of those come from McCullum. In Flynn and Redmond, it also includes two denutants. And here's what New Zealand could look like: Hamish Marshall, Lou Vincent, Stephen Fleming, Scott styris, Craig McMillan, Nathan Astle, Adam Parore, Chris Cairns, James Franklin, Paul Wiseman, Shane Bond. With the exception of Franklin, every single one of those names has been playing cricket this season, either in the ICL, the IPL, or in county cricket. And while some of those players have rightly retired from international cricket, there's no doubt that the likes of Bond, Marshall, Vincent and Styris could all still be, should be, in this side. And how much better would this series be then? The player drain out of the New Zealand game is one of the most serious problems affecting any national cricket board in the world. It is, quite simply, ludicrous that Shane Bond is being kept out of this series because of his participation in the ICL (and yes, I know he's injured at the moment but...), it's not so much cutting off the nose to spite the face, as digging out the eyes with a spoon and pulping what's left with a brick. With brilliant predictability, it has started raining again and the covers are coming back on. All in all,I'd say that this development is considerably less surprising than this (I'm sorry this is the last clip Jon, I promise):  And we've taken an early lunch, so that's that. Was this finest session in the history of OBO? I'd like to think so. Thankyou, thankyouverymuch. OK, I guess you should come back and check in for an update at 1pm, when we may have more of an idea about when play might start. See you then. Well, play is expected to start in 20 minutes, I'm told, at 1.20pm. Just don't hold your breath. Please. We don't want more  lawsuits from the families of bereaved OBO readers on our hands. Well maybe, just maybe we can start a normalish service again. So here's a neat quip from Matthew West to move us along: "Given the conditions and the top order, I think there is a real risk that Sideshow or Consistency Jim may sustain a lip-licking friction related injury. I think Otis Gibson should get down Superdrug and buy in a job lot of Vaseline." Praise be the players are coming out onto the field and going into a huddle. 1st over: New Zealand 2-0 (How 2 Redmond 0)Goodness, how much better is this when there's actually something to write about? And the new ball has been taken by Ryan Sidebottom, Steve Bucknor mutters "play" and the first two balls swing back in to Jamie How's offstump, the second of them tipped away towards fine leg for two. At short leg Ian Bell claps his hands as though it was something he was taught to do in a motivational management seminar. The fifth ball fizzes past How's outside edge. WICKET! Redmond c Cook b Anderson (2nd over: New Zealand 2-1) (How 2 Marshall 0) Here's Redmond then, a man with, I'm told a solid technique. Everytime I've heard that said - most recently by Chris Cairns - it's had a ring to it which has made it sound as though he was a total journeyman, and with a first class average of 32 at the age of 28 that may be a fair assumption. He'll struggle to have a better debut than his father, Rodney, who scored 107 and 56 in his first Test. And as I was saying... he's out, for a duck. Classic Jimmy Anderson, three squandered balls, one on line and then peach of an away swinger, the ball snicking the outside edge of the bat's shoulder as Redmond propped forward and flying into Cook's clutches at slip. Well.they managed to drop his father after he scored 163 runs in his first Test (apparently because he "failed to adjust to contact lenses") so that doesn't bode well for the son... 3rd over: New Zealand 3-1 (How 3 Marshall 0)I've never known such a bunch of curnudgeons as you OBO fans, are you really that perplexed by ourshiny new upside-down format? And if you're just seeing it for the first time, where were you through the long lonely afternoons of IPL coverage huh? Just a single from this over. 4th over: New Zealand 9-1 (How 4 Marshall 5)Four slips in for Jimmy Anderson now. As Marshall prods his first Test runs since Augiust 2005 out to leg, Harkarn Sumal has spotted the first swallows of summer: "15 May – 10.45am: TMS theme starts on radio, Aggers uses the word "mizzle" in his introduction. Is this the official start of summer? 15 May – 10.51am: Geoff Boycott tees off about the "diffeeecult slope" and makes the first of several thousand references to the fact that it's eight foot eight from boundary to boundary. THIS is the official start of summer. Hurrah!" Marshall drives three more runs out through cover by way of celebration. 5th over: New Zealand 13-1 (How 4 Marshall 9)"James Marshall used to play league cricket for Formby in the LiverpoolComp (before moving to the Northern Club of Crosby after Formby wererelegated from the top flight) and he was a fantastic cricketer, afantastic coach to the hundreds of young cricketers that came to theclub and was a generally brilliant fella." Neil Mackie, that email promised so much but really, have you not got any juicy anecdotes for us? Something, perhaps, like this:  Sidebottom made five sixths of an immaculate maiden, and then spoiled it with a wider ball which Marshall thrashed through the covers for four. 6th over: New Zealand 17-1 (How 7 Marshall 9)For all the poor work-bound souls having their OBO experience opressed by firewalls, that large white gap below this entry should contain drunken footage of a half-naked Chris Cairns dancing a haka infront of a group of abusive women at Bacup CC. Unlucky. As is Jimmy Anderson! A wicket! A snick from Marshall caught behind by Ambrose! And then Taufell's arm swings, but horizontally to his side rather than straight in front. A no ball, hardly, barely, only just. 7th over: New Zealand 18-1 (How 7 Marshall 9)"Erik Pietersen is angry: "So, you rolled out a forward-thinking innovation like the scrolldown OBO, used it a bit and then, when it proved popular and started being imitated in other quarters, decided to scrap it. Well played, OBO ... or should I say, ECB." While Richard Harries suggests that we may not be free of lawsuits just yet: "this new bottom up format for OBO is complete rubbish, pretty sure its giving me epilepsy. Please please go back to top down". Change bad. Me no like change. Sidebottom, looking curiously ineffective so far, switches around the wicket. He's bowling dot balls, but only because the batsmen can leave him alone so easily. WICKET! How 7 c Ambrose b Anderson (8th over: New Zealand 23-2 (Marshall 9 Taylor 4)"Woke this morning, feeling feverish from horrible virus to find no play (disappointing) and a youtube of Harold Bishop shooting himself in the hand, the head and turning into some strange pill dispensing machine!" Not me this, but Theo Butterphat, "Dear God Man! what the h*ll is going on! does the new OBO format mean to create some twisted tomorrow's world, where reliable characters like Harold Bishop become gun toting, pill spewing cyborgs.... whatever next, miracle hair growth for balding cricketers and James Anderson to take the first wicket at the Lords Test..." Well as if you weren't confused enough already, you can now make that the first two wickets. Another neat delivery, another snick, and another catch behind. New Zealand are on the rocks and Ross Taylor is in. He leans forward and turns his first ball away through square leg for four. And England should have had another one, and for the second time today there's a wry grin from Vaughan. A terrible piece of running shoehorned both batsmen into one end, and Jimmy Anderson, with all the time he wanted, threw at and missed the stumps at the vacant end. 9th over: New Zealand 30-2 (Marshall 10 Taylor 9)Taylor scores one four, squirted to third man, and then ends the over by driving three down the ground past mid-on. "Nope, no anecdotes," confirms Neil Mackie, "It was a promising start but i failed to build on it, just like Vaughan, Strauss, Cook etc etc etc". 10th over: New Zealand 35-2 (Marshall 14 Taylor 13)Anderson drops short and wide, so Marshall cuts him hard past gully, there, Kevin Pietersen crouches down and flails his hands at the ball as it flies a foot or so out of his reach. 11th over: New Zealand 40-2 (Marshall 14 Taylor 18)And in the crowd sits one Steve Waugh... I wonder what he's making of all this? Stuart Broad has come into the attack in place of Sidebottom. "What's with all these Jonny-come-latelys moaning about the "upside-down" format?" enquires old-timer David Owen, "I remember the last time you changed it, way back in the day, when you had to introduce the OBO coverage with the phrase "Scroll down - yes down - to update". Indeed we did. Ross Taylor decides to chop hard at Broad's third ball and slashes it for four, again over KP's head at gully. 12th over: New Zealand 41-2 (Marshall 14 Taylor 18)Terrible shot from Taylor, swinging missing at a short ball. He seems fully determined to take advantage of any loose balls while he can, which is understandable given the conditions. WICKET! Taylor 19 c Collingwood b Broad 13th over: New Zealand 42-3 (Marshall 15 McCullum 0)Well what the hell was that? Taylor said this morning that Geoffrey Boycott had told him to cut out the Twenty20 shots because he was in the great man's fantasy team for this series. Well Taylor didn't listen: he tries to pull that last ball out of the ground over backward square, and instead top-edged it up high towards slip, where Collingwood took a simple catch. What a great thought Boycott's fantasy team is by the way, imagine it: Tavare, Boycott, Mark Richardson, Boycott, Boycott, Boycott, Sobers, Boycott, Boycott, Boycott, Trueman. 14th over: New Zealand 43-3 (Marshall 15 McCullum 0)Anderson (6-1-22-2) continues. "Lovely day for it," muses Andrew Stroud, "which leads me to my question for your gathered masses – I have been offered a free ticket for today, which has yet to be collected – what would your readers suggest I do, at 14.20, given that I face a 1.5 hour journey from Teddington to get to Lord's, and am otherwise engaged in some really mind-numbing spreadsheet action…which will still have to be done. Is it worth it?" Well, yes, I'd say so. "Surely Boycott would want the best batsman at number 3?" points out Jack Lee, "Send for Mr Boycott...". A good quiet over from Anderson, marred only by a wide. 15th over: New Zealand 45-3 (Marshall 15 McCullum 2)"I bet (like many others I'm sure) that your quoted fantasy team for Boycs wouldn't lose many games..." suggests Jonny Martin, and presumably, by extension, it wouldn't win many either. Drawtastic. McCullum moves off zero with a thick edge between point and gully that brings himn two runs. 16th over: New Zealand 52-3 (Marshall 16 McCullum 6)"Sounds a great idea." says Matthew Brown of Boycott's fantasy team, "But which Boycott would be captain? And would the others be able to resist the temptation to constantly chip in with advice? I imagine the atmosphere could get a bit 'strained'." Well actually I think we could probably scrap Tavare and replace him with Boycott's grandmother, and assume that she'll silence all of them. Sidebottom has come back on to see if he can settle in a little better than he did earlier. Perhaps not: McCullum takes four with a glance to fine leg. And generally it's all a little leg-stump-heavy from Sideshow, uncharacteristically so. 17th over: New Zealand 57-3 (Marshall 20 McCullum 6)After what's seemed something of a lull, exacerbated by my growling, empty stomach, Marshall rouses the game from the temporary torpor by driving four pretty runs through long-off. 18th over: New Zealand 57-3 (Marshall 20 McCullum 6)Paul Collingwood has come on, which is actually sounds less ludicrous than it used to given that in the last 12 months he's taken 13 Test wickets at 26 each. And indeed his sixth ball here loops right around the corner across the batsman's pads and down the leg side. 19th over: New Zealand 57-3 (Marshall 20 McCullum 6)Sidebottom comes on at the Nursery End, and I presume that Collingwood was simply on to help everyone shuffle around. But the fact he got a bowl at least bodes well for the health of his shoulder. Sidebottom swings one in and the ball thumps Marhsall on the pads in front of leg, England roar out an appeal but Bucknor shakes his head, deciding the ball had pitched an inch or so outside leg. Perturbed, Marshall swings and misses at the next delivery. 20th over: New Zealand 58-3 (Marshall 20 McCullum 6)Broad comes on at the Pavilion End. Cheap gags at Sir Geoffrey's expense continue toflood my inbox, this latest courtesy of Andy Bradshaw: "I think Sir Geoffrey of the ME ME ME ME LOOK AT ME Boycott would quite like a decent bowler at number 11 who can hold a bat, I've heard mention that a certain G Boycott Esq. always fancied himself as a bit of an expert at the old twirling of the arm lark. Do you think the Coach might well be spelt B. o. y. c. o. t and t as well?" Broad shaves the off-stump after what was either a very astute, or very lucky, leave by Marshall. 21st over: New Zealand 63-3 (Marshall 20 McCullum 10)Great shot by McCullum, who frees his arms and lumps Sidebottom over backward square for four. Tom Lutz, resident hat, giver of life, lunch and love and supplied me with a fresh bounty of cardboard-packed roast beef sandwiches. For that I am truly grateful. Sidebottom finds an edge at last, the ball flying off towards gully but falling just short of Pietersen's out-stretched left hand. 22nd over: New Zealand 72-3 (Marshall 24 McCullum 14)Another close thing as McCullum drives four past Ian Bell at cover, the ball passing him within catching distance... oh Lord, that was even closer! An inside edge skimming off Marshall's inside edge and off the thigh pad, just passing the stumps on its way through. As if this wasn't frustrating enough, Marshall clatters the next ball through square leg for four. 23rd over: New Zealand 76-3 (Marshall 24 McCullum 18)McCullum plays a loose shot, finishing it with one hand on the bat and watching the ball fly off his leading edge and away for four more through cover. WICKET! Marshall 24 c Strauss b Broad (23rd over: New Zealand 76-4 (McCullum 18 Flynn 0)I return from a mad dash to the toilet in time to see Stuart Broad grinning and Marshall trooping off, bat tucked under arm. Another wicket, another edge, another catch behind and another debutant in. Good time to be playing your first Test innings this. Poor chap. OK, for the 500 of you have have written in to say this, I'm going to let Conor McKeating speak for you all: "If you dont get the chance to lookf or a while, and you hit F5, on the old scroll-down format, you could read each over without knowing what was coming next, whereas on the new format, you are immediately hit with the latest score, taking away the element of surprise! Its kind of like the difference between watching footbal coverage on Teletext and with Jeff Stelling - I know Jeff tells me more and is infinitely more modern, but Teletext always has surprise capacity on its hands... " Point taken, but really there's sod all to be done about it now is there? That's a wicket maiden from Stuart Broad. 24th over: New Zealand 77-4 (McCullum 19 Flynn 0)Flynn, left-handed, is a callow 23-years-old and, like Redmond, has a first class average of 32. Being a left-hander it is obligatory that commentators establish early which of the two cliche categories of southpaw that are accepted by commentators: nuggety or Goweresque. From the way in which he's out there prodding, missing, shuffling, it's safe to say he's the former. 25th over: New Zealand 83-4 (McCullum 25 Flynn 0)"I think if Mr McKeating is trying to look for suspense in OBO, he may need to get out a little more. Just a thought..." well, Richard Murphy, you might say that if he's looking at the OBO full stop, he needs to get out more. Well at least there's one man in this side you'd pay to watch bat: McCullum cracks a glorious drive for four through cover. To be fair I suppose Oram would be worth the entrance fee to (though whether I'd push it as far as the £65 they're asking to get into Lord's I'm less sure). 26th over: New Zealand 83-4 (McCullum 25 Flynn 0)Flynn stays on zero, playing out a maiden over in unflustered fashion. 27th over: New Zealand 89-4 (McCullum 31 Flynn 0)Tiring of this excessive self-restraint, McCullum comes down the pitch to Broad. The bowler sees him coming and drops the ball short, but McCullum's reactions are equally well-tuned and he hooks the ball to fine leg for four. 28th over: New Zealand 94-4 (McCullum 31 Flynn 4)Well it may not have been from his first ball as it was with Gower, but Flynn's first Test runs have still come with a boundary, nudged through leg. 29th over: New Zealand 98-4 (McCullum 31 Flynn 4)So, Anderson is on, and swinging the ball back intowards off-stump from outside leg, the ball beating not just bat but 'keeper too and disappearing for four byes. 30th over: New Zealand 104-4 (McCullum 31 Flynn 9)Well for the second time today Paul Collingwood has come on, Vaughan looking to lure McCullum into a bold, possibly rash, stroke. The batsman promptly sneaks out of his crease to take guard, and then slices a single out to backward square. Flynn flicks four over square leg, scampers a single from the sixth ball and, well, maybe he's playing himself out of 'nuggety' and into 'Goweresque'. WICKET! Flynn 9 b Anderson (32nd over: New Zealand 104-5) (McCullum 31 Oram 0)Well that's downright unlucky: Flynn is bowled behind his legs, shuffling across his stumps and then watching the ball slide off the outside of his thigh pad and into the timbers. 33rd over: New Zealand 105-5) (McCullum 31 Oram 0)And finally Monty comes on for a fiddle, again presumably trying to draw these two aggressive batsmen out of their shells. Vaughan brings up mid-off and mid-on to dangle the carrot. A rousing lbw shout from England, McCullum pushing out his pad at the ball, but umpire Bucknor shakes his head and says no. 34th over: New Zealand 109-5) (McCullum 35 Oram 0)Last over a long session and McCullum decides to swing wildly at the ball. Anderson is cutting the ball back in from outside off. McCullum rises up on his toes and chinese cuts the ball through fine leg for four. What a sketchy final over this is from McCullum, the fifth ball prompting a checked drive that lands the ball just short of Michael Vaughan at mid-off. That's over, and tea, thank goodness. Time to go and smoke. Right after tea you're going to be guided through by an OBO debutant, Tommy Bryant. Be nice. In the meantime, have a look at what Larry Booth would be telling you about were he here The players are back out on the field and I'm in the chair for my first OBO of both the summer and my life. As Andy says, be kind ... 35th over: New Zealand 115-5 (McCullum 35, Oram 6) The early news is that the ball is still swinging like a banana. Sidebottom's first delivery of the evening to Oram starts outside the off stump and swings away from the left-hander. The second does the same but nearly tempts Oram into a defensive stroke before sense takes over. By the third delivery, he puts bat to ball and prods one past Michael Vaughan at mid-off, before he edges one along the ground, through Cook's legs, for four. 36th over: New Zealand 130-5 (McCullum 41, Oram 12)Due to some technical issues beyond my control, I just lost the pearls of wisdom I wrote on Anderson's last over. It was, to be fair, a poor one. No line, little length, and only one ball that caused McCullum any difficulties. 37th over: New Zealand 131-5 (McCullum 42, Oram 12)Sidebottom does a better job than his compatriot as the onlooking Mick Jagger and Steve Waugh peer through the gloom. Just a single from the over as Sidebottom gets the ball to arc easily away from the bat. 38th over: New Zealand 135-5 (McCullum 45, Oram 13)Jimmy Anderson does with his first ball what I would have described two overs ago, except for technical issues. The ball cuts wildly back in to McCullum from just short of a length, threatening to carve him in two. The second is a slower ball that McCullum miscues, before he plants a sweet half-volley past Panesar for three. Anderson then goes round the wicket to the left-handed Oram, constricting him to a single. "Did you not see what happened to that Gap Year student who was given his own blog? Thousands of frustrated journalists couldn't wait to abuse him for having skinny jeans and thinking that the only consequential thing you could get from India was Delhi-belly. I'd imagine coming on to the OBO with a "tommyturbo" email will be more than enough to spark a wave of hatred...I just hope for your sake that you're not young and from private school!" says Adam Cole in probably the first of a wave of emails to congratulate me on my email address. I'm saying nothing, Adam. 39th over: New Zealand 135-5 (McCullum 45, Oram 13)Sidebottom is busy keeping things tight at his end and a series of well-pitched up deliveries leave Oram constrained to both his crease and defensive strokes. He reacts by trying to work Sidebottom across the line and gets a slight leading edge. It's the next ball that's a corker though, it bites back into Oram's body, flicks the pad and is caught behind to a predictable but unsuccessful appeal. "Tom, I know pedantry is best in The Fiver so apologies, but what does "swinging like a banana" mean?" asks Ben Sheppard. Ben, have you really never seen a banana swing? You haven't lived, man. 40th over: New Zealand 141-5 (McCullum 50, Oram 13)Broad replaces Anderson at the Pavilion End and his first ball, a slow, short and wide loosener is instantly pulled to the boundary. Two balls later he nicks a single for his fifty. That's 50 runs from 65 balls for McCullum and that's exactly what the Kiwis needed to get back in it. Broad's next to Oram is a belter, it cuts back, ducks and he just manages to get bat to ball. In the outfield, Monty is warming up - almost certainly just to keep warm. 41st over: New Zealand 149-5 (McCullum 58, Oram 13)Sidebottom comes in from wide of the crease and McCullum throws his arms, bat and the kitchen sink at it. The subsequent edge flashes through the gully for four. A lucky one but, as they always say, if you're going to flash - flash hard. Two balls later he opens his arms again and England's fielders get excited for a minute as it looks like it's streaking through the air towards Bell at cover. Instead, it goes for four. Sidebottom manages to rap him on the pads as revenge but McCullum is batting a long way out of his crease so was always safe. "I was worried for a moment there," frets John Sims. "Your first over and you nearly covered nothing but cricket; that's not on for OBO. However you recovered nicely by claiming 'technical' difficulties got to you in over two, and totally failed to mention how 15 runs were scored in six balls - brilliant recovery. Keep it up." Only the best for you, John. Only the best. 42nd over: New Zealand 149-5 (McCullum 58, Oram 13)Broad is making the most of the slope from the Pavilion End by spearing the ball about on the pitch. Oram doesn't exactly look uncomfortable but he doesn't look settled either. He plays and misses at the third and the fifth deliveries then leaves the last for a maiden. "I'm now troubled by an image of a load of bananas at a party sitting round a hatful of car keys. Thanks for that," chuckles Robin Hazlehurst. 43rd over: New Zealand 157-5 (McCullum 62, Oram 13)Oh dear, poor keeper. Sidebottom starts one out on leg stump and it keeps on swinging until Ambrose is left with no chance but to let four byes go past. McCullum then decides to put the hammer down by attempting another massive shot – one which he misses by a considerable distance. If he had edged that, he would have looked very silly. Two balls later he tries the same but, despite miscueing, it goes straight down the ground for four. That's the 50 partnership, scored from 70 balls. 44th over: New Zealand 162-5 (McCullum 66, Oram 14)Broad is keeping Oram very honest at the moment. This time he swings one in to him which nearly creeps through and onto the stumps. He looks grateful that the next ball is on leg stump allowing him to flick it away for a single. McCullum has no such difficulties. He walks down the wicket then mows Broad over midwicket for four. "I presume the old hands at OBO-land informed you that you are duty-bound to publish any old tosh we readers email you?" old-toshes Tom Goad. "On that note, my colleague has come up with possibly the most feeble attempt at a witty nickname along the 'Steve Harmless-on' lines with this gem: 'Jimmy Ander-Scattergun'. I'd like to know if anyone can top that for inanity?" Well, can you? 45th over: New Zealand 162-5 (McCullum 66, Oram 14)McCullum, trapped down the other end currently, must be a frustrating cricketer to have on your side. While his big-hitting is no doubt an asset, you wonder if this is the time and place for it. If another big swing leads to his downfall, I'd want to kick him if I was back in the dressing room with him. I mention all this because Oram has just blocked or left a series of goodish balls on or around off stump (except the last one which was nearly a wide) from Sidebottom for a maiden. 46th over: New Zealand 169-5 (McCullum 69, Oram 18)McCullum nearly does just what I was suggesting in the last over against Broad. "He's got a good eye, hasn't he?" suggest Ian Botham as McCullum has a swish, misses the middle of the bat, and sends it spiralling up into the air. It comes down safe, but without enough momentum to roll to the boundary. They run three, instead. Oram, uncomfortable against Broad, edges one that would have gone down fourth slip's throat. The next ball he nicks again but it bounces a foot in front of Cook. On the subject of poor nicknames ... "might I nominate England captain Michael Poorform," sniggers Ben Mimmack, before this 'pearl' from Nick Hood: "How about Jimmy Couldntevenlandhishandonhisbum?" 47th over: New Zealand 182-5 (McCullum 82, Oram 18)Monty's on, so McCullum straight drives him down the ground for four. The next ball foxes him though, a bat-pad appeal for LBW is turned down by Steve Bucknor despite Monty's best efforts to scream in his face. Two balls later, McCullum clubs him down the ground for six. A single follows to bring up an expensive over for Panesar. 48th over: New Zealand 196-5 (McCullum 92, Oram 20)Perhaps he's playing games but McCullum backs away just as Broad gets into his delivery stride. The next ball, sent down with added anger from the blonde-haired bowler, is met with another swipe. It would have landed somewhere near Regent's Park had he connected. Instead, he edges it to the third man boundary. The next one does connect - all the way over the long off boundary for six. I take back what I said about him; that was awesome. Oram may as well go home. "Re poor nicknames for cricketers, I was very proud of myself when I came up with the epithet 'the Sikh heating missile' for Monty at Lord's last summer," writes Ed Hawkesworth. "The next day I realised it didn't really make any sense. That's alcohol for you." 49th over: New Zealand 198-5 (McCullum 92, Oram 21)There's a man on the boundary with eight ice-creams. Eight! That's my kind of consumption. Monty continues and Oram struggles to get a ball away for a single. McCullum comes on strike, has a sweep, misses and earns a leg-bye instead. The umpires are thinking about the light, which may be why Paul Collingwood is coming on for the next over. 50th over: New Zealand 203-5 (McCullum 97, Oram 21)Collingwood's arrival has brought Ambrose up close to the stumps to try and stop McCullum from marching down the pitch. It does little to help, though, as he aims an agricultural hoik over the long-on boundary to go with the earlier couple of runs he scored earlier in the over. A defensive prod earns him a single and he moves onto 97, as the partnership reaches 99 from 111 balls. "I know it's hardly patriotic, but I'd like McCullum to get a ton and Vettori to pick up five wickets just to shut up the pundits who claim that players 'can't adjust' from Twenty20 to Tests. The good players can and the bad players can't: just as it is with the other difficult skills of cricket like playing the swinging ball or bowling yorkers," writes Gary Naylor. WICKET! McCullum 97 b Panesar (51st over: New Zealand 204-6 (Oram 21, Vettori 1)And Naylor puts the curse on him! A lovely flighted delivery from Panesar pitches on a full-length on leg stump. It clips the pad, clips the off-stump and McCullum is left standing there with his mouth open. Vettori won't exactly be delighted that he'll have a difficult few overs in the murk. He doesn't look very comfortable out there, either. Monty's turning the ball a little and Vettori just manages sneak a single from the last of the over. 52nd over: New Zealand 208-6 (Oram 21, Vettori 3)Broad returns to the attack, which is a good move. He's been the best bowler for England this afternoon and has certainly had Oram struggling. Vettori plays him carefully, though, edging one safely through the slips for two. "For those of us who want Hoggy back, can we call him Jimmy Andhesshunned?" suggests Gary Naylor, returning to the nickname theme. "Marcus Stress-cothick?" asks Rich McKinley. "No? Thought not..." 53rd over: New Zealand 208-6 (Oram 21, Vettori 3)Monty's off for Sidebottom and, after just one ball, the umpires offer the batsmen the light, which they gleefully accept. Vaughan has a look on his face rather like someone who has just realised the error of his judgement. Even on the television, it looks dark out there - and there's a bit of moisture, too - so the chances of seeing any more play today are pretty low. McCullum's wicket just about makes this England's day. In fact, no, it does make it England's day. Six wickets on the first day - admittedly in good bowling conditions - is always worth having. However McCullum's innings was special. The risk-taking was huge, the luck-riding was impressive but he pulled it off with aplomb. The two massive sixes - one off Panesar, one off Broad - were probably the highlights. The only shame was that he failed to die by the sword, instead falling to a decent delivery he was trying to defend. Incidentally, it's not looking good for any more play this evening. The covers are on, the stands are emptying and electric lights are shining through the gloom all around the ground. An update: More covers are coming on to the pitch, more rain is falling but still this hasn't been officially called off for the day. There are a few hearty souls still in their seats but they're almost certainly all asleep or deluded as day one is over bar the shouting. And now it is over. They're not saying it on the telly but they are elsewhere. Thanks for all your emails, join Mike Adamson for the start of tomorrow's play at 10.45am. 