10pm, BBC2In the wake of the Ukip leader’s resignation, this mockumentary follows Nige (Kevin Bishop) as he returns to Little England life, something that mainly consists of pints, puzzles, episodes of It Ain’t Half Hot Mum and a sense of irrelevance. The premise is obviously to recast Farage as a lovable buffoon, but why anybody would want to humanise the poster boy for one of the most heinous ideologies in living memory isn’t quite so clear. Rachel Aroesti 8pm, BBC4As we approach the bicentenary of its first publication, Mary Shelley’s gothic masterpiece continues to resonate through the wider culture and be reimagined in other media. Earlier this year, that meant the Royal Ballet offering a new take on the Modern Prometheus at the Royal Opera House, featuring choreography by Liam Scarlett and music by Lowell Liebermann. The reviews were mixed, but this is certainly spectacular. Jonathan Wright 9pm, BBC2Dan Snow leads the expedition in this recreation of the great Klondike gold rush of the late-19th century, one of the most exacting and dangerous get-rich-quick obstacle courses in history. More than 100,000 giddy prospectors descended upon this freezing Canadian wilderness, of whom more than half eventually gave up, or died. In the first part of the trek, Snow and his team tackle the Alaskan coastal mountains. Andrew Mueller 9pm, Channel 4Prepare for a return to existential nightmares as the synths bounce back for a second series. Champions of the robotic helpers’ cause, Laura (Katherine Parkinson) and Joe (Tom Goodman-Hill), are having a seemingly normal time looking for the cafetiere as they settle into their new house. In non-human news, Niska’s in Berlin and Mia (Gemma Chan) has a new job. No spoilers, but, as well as new characters, there’s a small injection of humour and more trouble ahead. Hannah Verdier 9pm, Channel 5A new biography of Bolton’s most celebrated export, from his formative days collecting Toffo wrappers at his local fleapit to his record-breaking run of sell-out arena shows. Though it’s ominously light on contributions from close collaborators, opportunity is afforded for input from lesser-celebrated contributors to Kay’s career. Otherwise, there’s little here that hasn’t featured in countless other Kay retrospectives. Mark Gibbings-Jones 6.30pm, Sky1With the Elders in exile and hiding out in Debbie’s loft – some of them, like Vice-Elder Flowers, conducting their exile fully nude – Stephen Fry’s Cuddly Dick begins the smear offensive, painting Debbie as corrupt and causing a backlash against her in Yonderland. Elsewhere, there’s a pretty hapless, Batman-esque vigilante in town – The Bird – followed around by his unwanted but far more effective sidekick The Bee, while Debbie seizes a chance to clear her name. Ben Arnold  9pm, UniversalAs the middling US medical drama continues, a slightly tenuous connection links two very poorly babies. When little Timmy’s condition worsens, Dr Rhodes suggests that Dr Manning take a drastic step in her treatment of another infant, much to the distress of the family and – you’d presume – the US equivalent of the GMC. Meanwhile, a homeless patient appears to be suffering from a severe psychiatric disorder, until another line of enquiry is pursued. Hannah J Davies Rush(Ron Howard, 2013) Sunday, 11.10pm, Channel 4Howard’s Formula One drama recalls one of the great sporting rivalries, between Britain’s James Hunt and Austria’s Niki Lauda (who praised the film as “good … 80% accurate, with a touch of Hollywood”). Chris Hemsworth’s Hunt is all golden-locked charisma; Daniel Brühl’s Lauda a more thoughtful, risk-aware character who was nevertheless the one to suffer a horrific accident in the Nürburgring in 1976. It’s a fascinating tale about a time when F1 was a death-defying business. Paul Howlett Let Me In(Matt Reeves, 2010), 11.55pm, BBC2A US remake of the haunting Swedish vampire movie Let The Right One In that loses some of the original’s sly humour in favour of a less ambivalent horror fix. But with teen superstars in Kodi Smit-McPhee (of The Road) as the troubled 12-year-old boy and Chloë Grace Moretz (Hit-Girl in Kick-Ass) as the vampire who befriends him, the sweet, youthful emotion survives alongside the bloodlust. PH Kill List(Ben Wheatley, 2011), 1.10am, Film4Former soldier Jay (Neil Maskell) and his mate Gal (Michael Smiley) are freelance hitmen contracted by a mysterious figure known only as the Client to kill a series of apparently unconnected people. With each bizarre murder, a chilling sense of foreboding grows as they enter ever darker territory. Brilliantly subverting genre conventions, this is a brutal, scary thriller. PH Test Cricket: Bangladesh v England 3.45am, Sky Sports 2 Coverage of the fourth day’s play. Darts: European Championship 12.45pm, ITV4 Coverage of the third day at the Ethias Arena in Hasselt, Belgium. Premier League Football: Everton v West Ham United 12.30pm, Sky Sports 1 The Hammers visit Goodison Park. Formula 1: Mexico Grand Prix 6pm, Channel 4 Live from Mexico City. 