 The Honor 8 is the latest smartphone from Huawei’s cheaper sub-brand. It’s no longer as cut price as the range used to be, but Huawei has squeezed most of what was good about its flagship P9 smartphone into something that costs almost 20% less. So do you really need to spend more than £400 for a great phone any more? The Honor 8 bucks the brand’s trend for metal-bodied phones with a glass front and back and metal around the sides. It’s a simple, attractive design, which feels very solid. The curved metal sides are easy to keep a grip of, thanks to narrow screen bezels, while the back has an attractive layering pattern that reflects light at different angles. The blue version is particularly pretty in sunlight. Shame, then, that you’ll probably want to put it in a protective case to prevent smashing both sides. At 7.5mm thick, the Honor 8 is a slim phone stacking up well compared to similarly-priced competition, including the 7.9mm thick LG Nexus 5X and the 7.4mm thick OnePlus 3. It’s also of a similar weight but doesn’t have any elements protruding from the back - a rarity for thin smartphones in the last couple of years. The 5.2in screen is good but not spectacular, with highly saturated colours, muted blacks and good viewing angles. The Honor 8 uses Huawei’s octo-core Kirin 950 and has 4GB of RAM, making it a highly capable smartphone, particularly at under £400. Performance can only be described as snappy, with little in the way of lag visible anywhere, despite Huawei’s heavy modifications to Android – more on that later. The Honor 8 will be able to handle pretty much anything anyone will likely try and do with it, from gaming to photo editing, without much issue. I also found it held on to a 4G signal better than most other smartphones in weaker network areas, although at the same time it was worse affected by the congested network conditions of London commuter trains, causing a greater battery drain than some other similar smartphones going through the same areas. The phone supports dual-Sims too, but one of the Sim trays can take a microSD card instead, so you either increase the storage capacity or add another phone number or data connection. Overall, battery life was very good, however. I could easily stretch out the battery to two days with little effort. Activating the battery saving modes added further capacity. During a normal work day, with hundreds of push notifications, three hours of wireless music listening, three hours of browsing and using apps, a quick game and the odd photo, I would make it home on the second day with around 10% of battery life left. The Honor 8 runs Huawei’s version of Android 6 Marshmallow called Emotion UI (EMUI) 4.1. While the underlying apps experience is essentially the same as standard Android you might find on other smartphones from other manufacturers such as HTC, Huawei heavily customises the look and feel. There is no app drawer, which means all the apps are placed on the homescreen like Apple’s iOS. The notification shade has been changed to a two-panel layout with a timeline-style listing of events, while the overview of recently used apps is flat, sliding carousel of app images, rather than a vertical stack of apps. Along with the visual changes, EMUI has much more aggressive power-saving features, that shuts down problem apps and severely limits what can be active when the screen is off by default. Some of the changes are good, others are a matter of taste, while some make Android less usable. Huawei continues its use of very fast, very accurate fingerprint sensors on the back, which are some of the best in the business and are able to unlock the Honor 8 in a fraction of a second. The fingerprint scanner doubles as a button, which can be customised to do just about anything with a short-, double- and long-press, including launching the Google search app. The Honor 8 has the same twin 12-megapixel camera set up as the P9 and performance is similar. One camera is colour and the other monochrome, which is used to boost the amount of light information captured, making for better low-light performance. It lacks the Leica branding of the P9 and does not have a pure monochrome shooting mode, but the colour reproduction, detail in images and low-light performance is very similar. Overall it’s capable of producing some good but not spectacular images, and has solid low-light performance, although I found it occasionally struggled to focus. The 8-megapixel selfie camera produces good snaps that are a bit soft in detail than I would like. Most will probably find the images flattering. The Huawei Honor 8 costs £370 in black, white and blue. For comparison, the Huawei P9 costs £449 with 32GB of storage (same as the Honor), Samsung’s Galaxy S7 costs £569, the Google Nexus 5X costs £339, the OnePlus 3 costs £329 and the Honor 7 costs £250. The Honor 8 is an excellent smartphone that balances a premium look, feel and performance with a mid-range price, which should make you question why should you pay over the odds for a top-end phone. Battery life is good, the dual camera setup produces decent shots, the fingerprint scanner is excellent and with 32GB of storage and a microSD card slot, there’s plenty of space for apps, photos and music. The biggest problem with the Honor 8, however, is the software. Huawei’s EMUI is getting better, slowly, but it’s an old version of Android 6 Marshmallow now, and while some may like the look and feel of it, I’m not a big fan.  It’s generally less intuitive and more fiddly than the standard Android interface, but does have some powerful power control features. For two-thirds of the price of most top-end smartphones, the Honor 8 is great value and doesn’t feel like a budget phone. It’s just not quite brilliant. Pros: good battery life, snappy, feels and looks nice, excellent fingerprint scanner, good camera, dual sim, headphone jack, microSD card slot Cons: back is very slippery, software isn’t as good as the hardware 