 Ownership of “wearable” devices in the UK is going up - but is still a long way from becoming mass market, according to the retail tracking company GfK.  A total of 420,000 units have been sold or given away this year with a total value of £51m - and about 40% of them are activity trackers, it says. Price is the biggest hurdle, the company’s research says, with 28% of consumers saying that it’s the cost that is the most important consideration for them when buying an activity tracker. About half of buyers prefer to get such products from technology companies rather than the fashion, jewellery or sports categories, GfK found - a preference that is reflected globally, with 42% in America, 51% in Germany, 54% in China and a remarkable 69% in South Korea reflecting the same view. But where to wear a wearable? That isn’t a problem, the company found. People wear them on belts, t-shirts, shoes and even underwear - though integration into bracelets or shoes are the most popular, at 33% and 26% respectively. Men prefer the idea of connected clothes such as shirts, shoes or belts, while women prefer necklaces, bracelets and rings. However wearables companies still face a key problem with “abandonment” - where consumers give up using their products because they don’t see any longer-term benefit in them. A study in the US earlier this year found that one-third of wearables owners had abandoned their devices within six months of getting them. In some cases, the abandonment may come because the wearables are thrown in with the purchase of other devices such as smartphones: Samsung has included some models of its Galaxy Gear smartwatches and its Gear Fit activity tracker for free with sales of its flagship Galaxy S phones.  GfK includes those giveaways in its “ownership” statistics, which were established by polling 1,000 smartphone owners online in each of the country markets. A sample of that size should be reliable, statistically, to give a picture of the wider market. For wearables makers, the danger of owners losing interest is a constant problem. Eric Micigovsky, chief executive of the smartwatch company Pebble, which began as a Kickstarter project and raised over $10m, told the Guardian: “At the beginning [of getting a Pebble] people tend to use it just for notifications and the changeable watchfaces.  But then they explore our app store and add other features, like controlling lights and thermostats - there’s even a Guardian app.”  He says that “Pebble is usually at the top of the survivors in terms of people keeping using them. We think that we are doing very well in those terms.” Pebble may find acceptance for such controls in future: GfK found that 38% of respondents expect to be able to control their TV, and 34% a sound system, from a wrist-worn device - and among those who consider themselves “tech-friendly” the figures are even higher.  Even so, smartwatches make up the smallest segment of the wearables space, comprising only 11% of owners in GfK’s survey. Health and fitness trackers were the most popular, at 39%; “wrist sport computers”, which record activity such as running, make up 26%; and “action cameras” such as the GoPro series another 24%.  Smartwatches, GfK found, are still considered “gadgets for geeks” - because they tend not to be aesthetically designed, and don’t have any clear function. That hasn’t stopped technology companies pouring into the space. The music star Will.i.am is working on a “smartcuff”, while Microsoft is expected to release a fitness-focussed smartwatch within weeks.  Micigovsky says that Pebble has sold more than 400,000 units, but adds that “it’s day zero for wearables. If you compare it with smartphones, it’s like 2007 [when the first iPhone launched] - it’s extremely early even for the big players in this space.”  Samsung’s blizzard of devices had not hurt Pebble, he said: “Market research shows that we held our own.”  And the impending arrival next year of the Apple Watch, announced in September, had boosted sales, he said. “It used to be we were fighting the good fight all on our own. Now we have big spenders which have joined in and are helping to boost the idea.”  