Stephen Phillips, who voted to leave the EU, quits in protest at government approach to parliamentary scrutiny of Brexit 
Matthew Weaver and 
Nadia Khomami 
14:52
 Here’s a summary of the latest developments: 
14:31
 Germany has urged Britain to set out its negotiation position over Brexit as soon as possible. Speaking alongside his counterpart Boris Johnson, Germany’s foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said: “Brexit is the clear and unmistakable position of your government. We regret that but of course we respect this decision.”  He added: “we should create the conditions as soon as possible for the negotiations to begin,” even if Britain’s Parliament does need a say.  “A stalemate won’t do either side any good,” he added. FM #Steinmeier on #Brexit: Important to set out conditions for negotiations asap. Stalemate is of no benefit to anyone. @BorisJohnson pic.twitter.com/PRkcvktA45 
14:24
 Severin Carrell  The Welsh government decision to take part in the supreme court hearing on a parliamentary vote on article 50 has sharply increased the prospects that Nicola Sturgeon’s Scottish government could also join the legal action, writes Severin Carrell.  Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, has been poised to seek formal representation in the action if Holyrood’s ability to give legislative consent to the final Brexit deal becomes part of the legal arguments in next month’s hearing. She told the Scottish parliament yesterday she would actively consider joining the case: “The job of this government is to protect Scotland’s interests; Scotland voted to remain in the EU and my job is therefore to protect our place in Europe and the single market as far as I possibly can.” This is a contentious area: Theresa May’s UK government argues that leaving the EU is wholly reserved to Westminster as it deals with foreign affairs and treaties. Scottish and now Welsh ministers argue that their devolved powers are directly affected by leaving the EU.  Sturgeon has stopped short of stating Holyrood will try to block Brexit by withholding legislative consent but insists that Scotland’s specific interests are intimately wrapped up in the Brexit deal. Her officials admit that legislative consent is a convention, not a legal right. Scottish government lawyers have already been sitting in on the high court hearings as observers in case that became an issue. Scottish sources said the statement on Friday by Mick Antoniw, the counsel general for Wales, now made a live prospect.  Antoniw said the article 50 hearing “raise[s] issues of profound importance not only in relation to the concept of Parliamentary Sovereignty but also in relation to the wider constitutional arrangements of the United Kingdom and the legal framework for devolution.” 
14:20
 Rajeev Syal A friend of Phillips said he has resigned because the Conservatives have become “Ukip lite”, writes Rajeev Syal.  “It’s about values. The values of this government are not his values. “They’ve lurched to the right and become UKIP lite. He is not,” the friend said. “Their failure to honour their promises on child refugees; the decimation of international aid to the poorest and most vulnerable in the world” are two of the key issues, the friend said. “Brexit is part of it, because they think they can do what the hell they like without asking parliament. But it’s only a small part of it. It’s the fact that he is not a Conservative in this mould,” the friend added. Updated
14:17
 Here’s video of EU commission spokeswoman Mina Andreeva failing to suppress a smile as she described the “fairly short conversation” between Theresa May and Jean-Claude Juncker over the timing for triggering article 50 in the wake of yesterday’s ruling. .@Mina_Andreeva Deputy Chief Spokeswoman of @EU_Commission about the phone call between Theresa May & Juncker - More https://t.co/HWWMHwVNAD pic.twitter.com/OvPJME9nCE 
13:50
 The Bar Council has added to the growing chorus of those condemning the hostile media coverage of the judges involved in Thursday’s ruling. Chantal-Aimée Doerries chairman of the Bar Council said: “If we do not respect the independent judiciary we put at risk our democracy. All the parties in the case accepted that it was right that the judges should determine this issue.” Speaking to BBC News she said: “What concerns me about the headlines is the attack on judges and the attack effectively on their role, in other words not recognising that they are independent in upholding the rule of law, not simply expressing their own views.” 
13:39
 Ukip leadership candidate Suzanne Evans has announced that she is seeking the party’s nomination for the Sleaford byelection.  She told BBC Radio 4’s World At One: “I would like to throw my hat into the ring.”  Evans is one of three remaining contenders to replace Nigel Farage as leader of Ukip.  
13:31
 Steven Morris Steven Morris has more on the response of the Welsh government to the high court ruling and subsequent challenge (see earlier).  The first reaction of the Welsh first minister, Carwyn Jones, to the Brexit high court judgement was to urge the UK government not to challenge the ruling. It was not that he thought the ruling could scupper Brexit – which he opposed. Jones said there was no doubt in his mind that the UK would leave the EU. But he argued that debating the terms of Brexit in parliament would help the people of the whole of the UK to understand the strategy of Theresa May’s government. He also repeated – for the umpteenth time since the referendum – that votes should take place in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland to endorse the UK government’s position. But it was inevitable that there would be a supreme court hearing. Having considered overnight, the counsel general for Wales, Mick Antoniw, the government’s law officer, has said he wishes to attend that hearing – and address the judges. Antoniw, an assembly member for Pontypridd, is concerned at how the UK government had hoped to use prerogative powers to trigger article 50 without consulting MPs and peers – and believes this could have “profound” implications for the relationship between Westminster and the devolved assemblies. A fear is that future use of those powers may undermine the status of the Welsh assembly and the fundamental legal and constitutional relationships of the Welsh government to the UK government. There has been some concern that Wales will find it hard to get its voice heard during the build-up to Brexit. Antoniw’s appearance at the supreme court, if it is allowed, will help build Wales’ profile. 
13:23
 The foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, has urged Europe to ignore “sturm und drang” (storm and stress) in parliament over the high court ruling.  Asked about Phillips’ resignation during at a press conference in Berlin with his German counterpart, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Johnson said:  He should really not read too much into the legal decision that you have just seen or indeed the sturm und drang, if that’s the word I want, that is going on in parliament at the moment.  The direction is very clear the will of the British people was expressed very clearly and it is the decision of Theresa May and her government to get on and make that process work.  And that is what is going to happen. It is very important for our European friends and partners ... to get on with delivering a solution that works for both our great economies.  Johnson also insisted that the ruling would not interfere with the timetable for triggering article 50.  Updated
13:03
 Owen Bowcott has more on the political reaction to the press hostility over the high court ruling.  