New all-in-one computer has large high-resolution display marking its first major update since 2011 • iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3 – live coverage of the Apple event • Apple releases newest version of Mac OS, Yosemite, for download New all-in-one computer has large high-resolution display marking its first major update since 2011 • iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3 – live coverage of the Apple event • Apple releases newest version of Mac OS, Yosemite, for download 
 Apple has released a new version of its iMac desktop computer at an event in California, with a 27in retina display marking its first significant update since 2011. It will go on sale today, starting at $2,499. The new iMac brings the high resolution retina display – first introduced on the iPhone and iPad, then the MacBook Pro in 2012 – to the desktop. The “retina 5K” display will have a native resolution of 5120x2880 pixels, leading to a 14.7 megapixel display. That boosts the resolution and pixel density, but in keeping with Apple’s approach to mobile devices, it uses it to make text, icons and pictures sharper and easier to read, rather than simply making everything much smaller and adding more screen real estate. The new iMac maintains the slim all-aluminium design, introduced in 2011 along with Apple’s Thunderbolt port for fast external connections, while the internals are upgraded with a 3.5Ghz quad-core Intel i7 and an AMD Radeon R9 M290X graphics card. The original iMac launched in 1998 as Apple’s modern design-led all-in-one computer, combining computer and screen into one device. It was also Apple’s chief designer Jony Ive’s first big creation for the company, based around an original tube TV monitor and polycarbonate body. Since 1998 the iMac has seen several revisions, moving to an articulated flat screen in 2002 and then to the basis for the current aluminium bodies in 2004. Apple continued to update the iMac internally, switching to Intel processors from IBM Power PCs in 2006. The iMac has steadily replaced the Mac Pro as the machine used by most desktop Mac users, including publishers and artists, with only video producers clinging to the more expensive, but more powerful Mac Pro. • Apple unveils iPad Air and iPad mini with Touch ID fingerprint scanner • Apple releases newest version of Mac OS, Yosemite, for download • Apple Pay launches in US 