One of the City’s most prized businesses – the way that financial products priced in euros are processed – will not be lost to the remaining members of the European Union as a result of Brexit, according to the ratings agency Standard & Poor’s. The costs associated with moving the clearing of complex financial instruments to another financial centre means London is likely to remain the home of the £460tn-a-year business, S&P said. There have been warnings that as many as 100,000 City jobs would be axed if London lost its euro-clearing role, which rival European financial centres were eyeing up jealously even before the result of the 23 June referendum.  An estimated 70% of the transactions using the European single currency are processed in London by clearing houses, which step in between major banks and financial firms on big deals to guarantee transactions. The European Central Bank has argued this business should be conducted in the eurozone. Last year, however, the Treasury declared victory over the central bank after a European court concluded the ECB did not have the right to make such a demand. The vote for Brexit, though, has reopened the debate about London’s role at the heart of a key part of the European financial sector’s machinery. “The UK’s referendum vote to leave the EU reopens the possibility that the ECB, supported by other EU authorities, could try to require the clearing of euro-denominated contracts into the eurozone or more likely the EU,” S&P said. There could be two ways to do this – reawaken the demands about where the business is located, or make changes to the regulations which govern the way standards are set for such operations.  “We believe the first route is likely to be complex, slow and uncertain; the second could be simpler. At this stage, however, we see neither of these options as likely. This is for several reasons, notably the massive extra burden of margin collateral that it could place on market participants,” S&P said. Clearing houses require collateral to be used as a deposit when they are handling trades so extra demands for collateral would push up the cost of doing business from $83bn to $160bn at the London Clearing House, according to an estimate by financial data company ClarusFT cited by S&P. 