Joseph Rowntree Foundation research shows EU referendum was deeply divided on economic, educational and social lines 
Anushka Asthana Political editor 
 People who felt that they had been pushed to the margins of society, on low incomes and living in low-skilled areas, were the driving force behind Brexit, according to research from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation. It found that the way Britons voted in June’s referendum was deeply divided along economic, educational and social lines, with a lack of opportunity across swaths of the country resulting in people opting to leave the EU. Julia Unwin, the chief executive of the foundation, called the results a “wake-up call”, arguing that Britain could not afford to return to business as usual in the wake of the vote.  “For too long, many communities have been struggling as the country’s prosperity passed them by and missed out on opportunities to build a better life.  “With energy focused on the process of leaving the EU, there’s a danger the concerns of people at home are ignored. This analysis should act as a beacon for politicians who often talk about representing the concerns of ordinary people.” She said the rapid pace of change in the economy had left too many without skills or opportunities, and said much more was needed to make sure prosperity was shared across the economy. “Theresa May has made the right noises to overcome this and heal the divisions with a promise to make Britain work for all. The priority is making good on this promise.” The analysis, which was carried out by Professor Matthew Goodwin at the University of Kent, found that 58% of people in households earning less than £20,000 a year voted for Brexit. That compared with 35% in families earning more than £60,000. The same was true of the unemployed, with 59% voting out, while 45% of those in full employment did the same. Educational inequality was also highlighted, with support for leave 30 percentage points higher among those with only GCSE qualifications or below than for those with a degree. There was also a geographical divide between higher and lower skilled areas. “This research reveals how the referendum was not simply about our relationship with the European Union, but also shed light on the deep divides that exist in our society,” said Goodwin. “The findings of our research point to the importance of both people and place. It wasn’t only that people who are struggling tended to support Brexit but also in some cases more skilled people who reside in low-skilled areas. This is a crucial finding as it speaks as much to the debate about how to ensure that people have the same opportunities as it does to questions about poverty, educational inequality and disadvantage.” 