It might all be coming together at the right time for co-hosts New Zealand, who should start the World Cup with high hopes of reaching at least the semi-finals Contact author 
 There was an element of the unexpected about New Zealand’s semi-final run last time they co-hosted cricket’s World Cup in 1992. Captain Martin Crowe and coach Warren Lees had been experimenting with their line-up and tactics more than a year out from the tournament but uninspired results in the lead-up had actually brought Crowe’s leadership under threat. Then Dipak Patel was thrown the new ball, a motley assortment of seamers fell in sync with inspired fielding and Crowe himself starred like never before. This time around New Zealand are faced with an entirely different mood around their squad, one of justified expectation. This is a side now boasting the depth to leave a player as talented as Jesse Ryder out in the cold. Complacency is at an all-time low. The Kiwi batting line-up is strong in all respects other than its opening combination of Martin Guptill and Brendan McCullum, who now rarely fire at the same time. Still, in Ross Taylor, the recently-unstoppable Kane Williamson, all-rounder Corey Anderson and even hard-hitting keeper Luke Ronchi, this side boasts plenty of dynamic, versatile and fast-finishing batting and also the most productive tail-enders in ODI cricket. Binding his men together with such substance and purpose in recent times, McCullum is actually a rather odd proposition as an ODI batsman; he’s rarely a threat in the format that theoretically suits him best. Just twice since the start of 2014 has he passed 50 in ODIs (including 117 against Sri Lanka in Hamilton), a time in which he’s averaged just 27.24; surprisingly meagre returns for a batsman in total command at Test and T20 level. The commanding Taylor has four centuries and five half-centuries since the start of 2014 and hit some sublime form in his side’s lead-up fixtures against Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Williamson, surely the most understated star in the game, is in the kind of prolonged purple patch that rules out aberrance. The right-hander’s last 10 ODI knocks (70*, 46, 123, 97, 15, 103, 26, 97, 54, 112) have been the stuff of dreams heading into such a big tournament and the maintenance of that standard could be decisive. Muscular all-rounder Anderson (he of the 36-ball ODI century against West Indies) combines brutal left-handed hitting with a wicket-taking knack and, as well as taking the gloves, ex-Australian Ronchi underlined his batting talents in January with a staggering undefeated 170 against Sri Lanka. Handily, he and Anderson can both turn a game in the space of five overs. On the bowling front, various combinations of Tim Southee, Kyle Mills, Trent Boult, Daniel Vettori and Mitchell McClenaghan have proven increasingly adept at restricting scoring in the Kiwis’ home fixtures. Nathan McCullum and recalled all-rounder Grant Elliott will provide spare parts as required. If statistical feats were the only qualification, McClenaghan would be a household name by now. He boasts a scarcely-believable ODI strike rate of 25.6 and his 66 wickets have come at 24.83 in only 34 games.  Mills and Southee perform steady feats that are far more modest but no less impactful to the cause, meaning that the Kiwis have coughed up only two 300-plus scores at home in the four years since the last World Cup. Only twice since January 2014 have their bowlers failed to defend a target on home soil and you get the sense that their continuity and confidence will be hard for opponents to rattle. New Zealand’s problem in their preparation for this World Cup – 16 wins, seven losses and one tie since the start of 2014 – has been in exposing themselves to the strongest opposition. Bar their 2-1 reverse to South Africa at home, in that time they’ve had to be content with the new world order of scheduling and take what they’re given. At home they’ve beaten up on Pakistan, India and Sri Lanka. The latter, their first opponents here, hold no real fear.  The Kiwis play all of their pool matches at home and if they’re good enough, a quarter and semi-final too. Potential surprises lay elsewhere though because in this resurgent streak of theirs they’ve barely played against the rest of their preliminary opponents, if at all. They will hope that familiarity with their own surroundings provides adequate compensation. Those other opponents are Scotland (a highly-professional outfit that they’ve never encountered in internationals), Afghanistan (ditto), England (against whom they lost 2-1 at home and drew 2-2 away in 2013, their only seven meetings in the last five years), Australia (who they’ve played just twice in ODIs since April 2010 – both losses), and Bangladesh (against whom they’ve never lost at home) before that possible quarter-final in Wellington. It’s largely a blessing for the co-hosts to play all of their preliminary matches in the conditions and on grounds with which they’re comfortable, though you do wonder what kind of hurdle in momentum and mindset it could prove if they’re required to cross the ditch to Australia at the pointiest end of the tournament. This is probably the strongest squad New Zealand has assembled for a World Cup and McCullum’s side should be aiming for nothing less than that semi-final berth, potentially their seventh in 11 attempts. A few amongst them must surely have confidence that on their day, they’re among the best in the world. All should have their passports at hand. 