 A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Fred Wilson (one of the VC investors in Twitter, and a strong advocate of developers writing for Android first) got looking at the most popular apps on the two platforms in the US:  Nine of the top 40 apps on Android are utilities vs three of the top 40 on iOS. This really jumped out at me when I was looking… What I take from this work is that if the popularity algorithms on iOS and Android are similar (I don't know), then the user bases for these two operating systems in the US are fairly different. That may be true even if the algorithms work differently. The picture that emerges for me is Android users are a "barbell" with young pre-teens and teens using cheap phones that won't cost a lot to replace when they are lost or destroyed and old folks like me who want a large screen and care more about utility than having fun. iOS owns the college kids, the post-college kids, and the folks who getting married and starting familes. My bet is Android is sub-18 and post-40 and iOS is the 18 to 40 crowd. To get an idea of the penetration rate in each country, they also calculated the ratio between the number of Twitter users and the total population. Interestingly, this ratio is not the same for all countries. Instead, it scales with the GDP per capita in each country. So wealthier countries have more Twitter users per capita. Next, Hawelka and co worked out the percentage of users in each country that visited at least one other country throughout 2012. It turns out that the places with the most mobile users are Hong Kong, Belgium and Austria. That's not surprising given that these are small territories with easy access to other countries. According to Chinese site C Technology [via Unwired View], Apple is continuing to reduce its orders for the iPhone 5c with suppliers, still working to balance production with customer demand that has remained very strongly in favor of the higher-priced iPhone 5s. The report claims that Apple's main assembly partner ProTek (Pegatron) has slashed production from 320,000 units per day in October to just 80,000 units per day. Similarly, Apple's backup assembler for the iPhone 5c, Foxconn, is operating at only a minimum capacity of 8-9,000 units per day. Data all seems to agree that the 5S is outselling the 5C by around 3:1. Production of 80,000 per day works out to 7.2m over a 90-day quarter if it's seven days a week; 5.1m if it's a five-day week. Stack ranking was a bad system that caused widespread problems for Microsoft. Essentially, the way it worked was that Microsoft managers had to rank their employees in order of 1-5 in ranking. No matter how good the employees were, some of them had to get the low ranking of a 5. Seeing even good employees get a 5 hurt morale at Microsoft. You don't have to think hard to realise how destructive that would be. Yet it persisted inside Microsoft for more than a decade. Monica Langley explains how Ballmer tried to create change from January under pressure from other board members:  Qi Lu, an executive vice president, submitted a 56-page report on applications and services. Mr. Ballmer sent it back, insisting on just three pages—part of a new mandate to encourage the simplicity needed for collaboration. Mr. Lu says he retorted: "But you always want the data and detail!" Mr. Ballmer says he started to realize he had trained managers to see the trees, not the forest, and that many weren't going to take his new mandates to heart. In May, he began wondering whether he could meet the pace the board demanded. "No matter how fast I want to change, there will be some hesitation from all constituents—employees, directors, investors, partners, vendors, customers, you name it—to believe I'm serious about it, maybe even myself," he says. His personal turning point came on a London street. Winding down from a run one morning during a May trip, he had a few minutes to stroll, some rare spare time for recent months. For the first time, he began thinking Microsoft might change faster without him. "At the end of the day, we need to break a pattern," he says. "Face it: I'm a pattern." That's a remarkable admission; credit to Ballmer for making it. (Article is paywalled.) According to Eugene Kaspersky:  in terms of numbers of attacks, Chinese-speaking malware, Chinese-speaking criminals, they are more than half of the attacks. Second place: Spanish and Portuguese…in some cases we don't know, is it Spanish? Portuguese? Those are close languages. So, number 1 is…Chinese-speaking malware. Number 2: Spanish/Portuguese-speaking malware. Number 3: Russian-speaking malware. But Russian-speaking malware is the most complicated. Himanshu Gupta points out that overall mobile internet traffic has passed desktop traffic in India:  whereas earlier a search for Restaurant for an evening-out with friends might have started with "Restaurant in South Delhi serving Chinese food" on desktop browser, today a user is more likely to do it via Zomato app (a Yelp like service in India) while being on the move. Similarly, a query for "buy Samsung Galaxy Note 3" might have been easier to type on a desktop browser but on a touch smartphone, it's much more difficult to type and thus a user would prefer to open an Amazon or Flipkart mobile app and reach to Galaxy Note 3 via just 3-4 taps on small mobile screen (Home->Mobiles->Samsung->Note 3) since the experience is much more visual and faster. Which is why Google is offering indexing in apps in KitKat (and earlier). The problem of people using apps rather than search remains, though. Andy Baio offers advice for those who will do presentations. Including:  Never have more than four or five words on a single slide. Any more than that, and people will start reading them instead of listening to you. If it's a longer passage or quote, you're going to have to read it out loud anyway for the back rows, so you might as well leave it off the screen. Not a hard and fast rule, but generally a good one. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service. 