A shakeup of Rolls-Royce, the engineering group, has claimed another victim with the chief executive, Warren East, replacing his chief financial officer. David Smith is to leave Rolls-Royce after three years as finance director and will be succeeded by Stephen Daintith, who has the same role at the Daily Mail & General Trust (DMGT). Smith, the former chief executive of Jaguar Land Rover, is leaving Rolls to “pursue other business interests”, the company said in a stock market statement. The departure of Smith comes after East named Simon Kirby, chief executive of the HS2 project, as the company’s new chief operating officer, and told staff that Rolls would cut another 200 management roles. East became Rolls boss last year and is restructuring the company in the face of falling revenues and profits. Rolls makes engines for civil aeroplanes, such as the Airbus A380 superjumbo, as well as parts for ships and nuclear reactors. The company’s workforce fell from 54,100 in 2014 to 50,500 in 2015, according to its latest annual report, with more cuts still to come. Smith will stay at Rolls until the new year to “ensure an effective transition”, with a date not yet set for Daintith’s arrival. He will receive another 12 months’ salary from Rolls due to his contractual notice period, which includes the extra months he will continue to work for the company. Daintith will receive a salary of £680,000, 26% more than Smith’s £540,000, and be paid for the unvested incentives he is forfeiting at DMGT. East, the former boss of technology company Arm, said: “I am delighted to welcome Stephen to Rolls-Royce as chief financial officer and as a board colleague. His deep understanding of international business and his record of achievement in change management are particularly relevant to Rolls-Royce as we build our business and respond to the growing global requirement for our technology. “I would like to thank David Smith for his valuable support over the past three years. David has made an important contribution to restoring confidence in the business, improving financial systems and delivering the early stages of our transformation. I and the rest of the Rolls-Royce team wish him every success in the future.” Daintith said he was “extremely excited to be joining one of the world’s great engineering companies” and that East is “driving a transformation programme that I entirely support”. Shares in Rolls rose 1.5% to 736.50p. 