Comparing the PM to Blackadder’s Baldrick, the Labour leader says her ‘cunning plan is to have no plan’ 
Rowena Mason Deputy political editor 
 Jeremy Corbyn has accused Theresa May of causing uncertainty for businesses with her lack of a plan for Brexit. The Labour leader said the prime minister was keeping voters, parliament, businesses and the leaders of Scotland and Wales in the dark about how she would take the UK out of the EU. During prime minister’s questions in the House of Commons, Corbyn compared May to the Blackadder character Baldrick, suggesting her “cunning plan is to have no plan”. “Brexit was apparently about taking back control, but the devolved governments don’t know the plan, businesses don’t know the plan, parliament doesn’t know the plan,” he said. “When will the prime minister abandon this shambolic Tory Brexit and develop a plan that delivers for the whole country?”  The prime minister replied: “I’ll tell you what we’re going to deliver: we’re going to deliver on the vote of the British people, we’re going to deliver the best possible deal for trade in goods and services with, and operation within, the European Union, and we’re going to deliver an end to free movement.  “That’s what the British people want and that’s what this government is going to deliver for them.”  The spat over the UK’s plan for exiting the EU came after the Guardian published details of a leaked recording of an address given by May before the EU referendum, in which she predicted companies would leave if the UK pulled out of the single market. “I think the economic arguments are clear,” she told a meeting of Goldman Sachs bankers. “I think being part of a 500 million trading bloc is significant for us.” She said membership of the union also made the UK a safer place. Opposition politicians said her comments to the bankers, made a month before the vote in June, showed May believed the UK was better off in the single market, even though she has signalled controls on immigration are the most important thing to secure from a Brexit deal with the EU. EU leaders have repeatedly said the UK cannot stay in the single market if it wants to end freedom of movement for EU citizens. Keir Starmer, the shadow Brexit secretary, tweeted: Before referendum PM says access to 500m strong trading bloc essential; now won't make economy & jobs the priority! https://t.co/EaqRLxd59F His colleague Andrew Gwynne, the shadow minister without portfolio, said: “As if we needed it, this recording is cast-iron evidence of how Theresa May and other senior Tories have been saying one thing in private about the economic impact of Brexit and another in the comfort of Tory conference halls. “It’s plain that she recognises what a disaster it would be for Britain to lose access to the single market, so why doesn’t she be honest with the British people and say how she plans to retain it?” The SNP accused May of showing “utter contempt for the public”. Joan McAlpine, convener of Holyrood’s Europe committee, said the secret recording “shows the warnings the then home secretary made before the referendum are actually very accurate, talking of the damage that leaving Europe would inflict on our economy and the problems it would cause for our security. “Expert research shows that quitting Europe threatens up to 80,000 jobs in Scotland and could cost the Scottish economy more than £11bn a year by 2030,” she said. “We now know that Theresa May privately agrees with forecasts like this. But the revelations show the utter contempt that the Tories have for the public – assuming that people will forget all the warnings they made prior to the referendum about the damage of Brexit. Unfortunately for them, the Scottish public have slightly longer memories than the Scottish Tories. “The fact that she has since changed her tone so dramatically and seems intent on the hardest Brexit possible shows just how in thrall the UK government is to the hard-right of the Tory party instead of pursuing the national interest.”  Tim Farron, the Lib Dem leader, said it was “disappointing that Theresa May lacked the political courage to warn the public as she did a bunch of bankers in private about the devastating economic effects of Brexit”. He added: “More disappointing is that now she is supposedly in charge, she is blithely ignoring her own warnings and is prepared to inflict an act of monumental self-harm on the UK economy by pulling Britain out of the single market.” Phil Wilson, an MP speaking for the Open Britain group campaigning for the UK to stay in the single market, said: “It’s good to know that privately Theresa May thinks what many of us have been saying publicly for a long time – leaving the single market would be bad for businesses and for our economy. “Now she is prime minister, Theresa May is in an unrivalled position to act on her previous concerns – starting by putting membership of the single market at the heart of her government’s negotiating position.” 