You don’t have to look as far afield as Rio to find all-time records being smashed to bits in the last two weeks.  The US stock market has been celebrating Team USA’s string of gold medals by posting a string of new highs, having staged a decisive recovery from its “Brexit” swoon, after Britain voted to leave the EU in late June. The three major indices – Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq Composite – even scored new records simultaneously for the first time since 1999, the height of the dotcom boom.   So why, amid all this market ebullience, do most ordinary investors feel downright glum?  The problem is that though stock markets bounced back to life rapidly following the 2008 financial crisis, the typical investor waited until 2013 to return, missing out on the earliest – and biggest – parts of the post-crisis rally.   Most people remain deeply wary of stocks – not surprising, after they saw the equity portion of their retirement shrink by 40% or more within a single year. A professional investor isn’t worrying about needing to retire in four or five years with a much, much smaller 401k plan. He can afford a long-term view.  The average woman in the street, however, is in a much different position. Not only are her savings smaller, but the collapse in interest rates – part of the Federal Reserve’s repeated attempts to jump-start the economy – has left her fixed income investments yielding almost nothing.  Her house, which represents a larger share of her net worth than that of a more affluent investor, may have lost value. Or at least she probably can’t count on its value at the same rates as before 2008, when the housing market cratered and left only San Francisco and New York City as real estate exceptions.  Her job may be less secure, as companies cut costs. Her salary, which also is more important to her financial wellbeing than her investment income, is almost certainly flat, and she pays a higher proportion of the cost of the benefits she receives.   To profit from the market’s record highs, she would have to be willing to take on more risk in her investment portfolio – if she has one at all – and load up on stocks. And for many Americans, that feels like it’s asking too much. They probably aren’t wrong.  The last bull market in stocks ended brutally when the dotcom bubble burst in the spring of 2000, but it wasn’t followed by a chasm opening in wealth inequality, as in the crisis of 2008. If that late-1990s boom gave birth to “equity culture” – the idea that stock investing can go mainstream – then the 2008 crisis may have handicapped the idea.  Too few Americans have profited too little from the stock market rally, while a handful of the country’s wealthiest have taken the lion’s share of the profits, simply because they have the spare capital to invest. Rises in the stock market have persistently accompanied increases in income inequality from 1979 to 2011, according to a report by the St Louis Federal Reserve. Even middle-income families are less likely to expose their savings to the higher risks of the equity markets, the report concluded.  And the reason those stocks have climbed? Well, it’s as much due to interest rates as corporate profits. As long as bond yields are at their current basement levels, even anemic profits look attractive to investors,relative to bonds. It’s growth! And bonds aren’t going to be delivering that any time soon. So what else is an investor to do? As the old saying goes, in the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed man is king. And that one-eyed man, right now, would be US stocks.  The truth is that the stock market’s records may be fragile. Corporate earnings have declined for the fifth straight quarter, and those companies that have managed to post higher profits have done so by cutting costs rather than generating higher sales. That should be bad news for stock prices, which typically trade as a multiple of a company’s earnings.   The only thing that’s keeping the party going for now is super-cheap money, AKA low interest rates. As long as that’s happening, well, the only place to park your spare cash – if you’re an investor – is in stocks.   But it’s interesting to look at just where those investors are choosing to put their money. By far the strongest performers of the S&P 500’s 10 sectors are the telecommunications and the utilities sectors, both crammed full of stocks that pay out big dividends to their investors every quarter. In other words, investors are flocking to the safest companies out there, and the ones that will behave the most like bonds, paying them dividends instead of interest . There just aren’t very many cheap stocks left – another reason to feel gloomy as the market has hit highs.   Perhaps it wouldn’t matter as much if more of us had managed to capture more of the gains. But we haven’t. But when this geriatric bull market eventually gives up the ghost, all of us who have any kind of investment portfolio, however small, will share the pain. The smaller our portfolios, the more significant those losses will be.  Ultimately, the only thing average Americans seem able to count on is financial insecurity. Their increased productivity has gone to higher profits for corporations, and companies have paid those profits to shareholders in the form of higher stock prices, rather than to employees in the form of higher compensation. Only if that is reversed will we all be able to truly celebrate a bull market that profits everyone.  