 Andy Murray carried on where he left off in the SAP Open final in San Jose against Lleyton Hewitt when he again turned around a one-set deficit, this time against Rainer Schüttler yesterday, to win his firstround match of the Regions Morgan Keegan championships in Memphis. When Schüttler, the 2003 Australian Open runner-up, rushed through the first set in under half an hour it seemed the physical and mental exertions of Murray's first ATP title on Sunday might have caught up with him. But the 18-year-old Scot is a tremendous battler and came back from 5-4 down in the second set, with Schüttler two points from victory on his serve, to win 1-6, 7-5, 6-2. So it remains possible Murray will take over as the British No1, ahead of Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski, by the end of the week. "To be honest this is the bottom of my list of priorities," he said. "I'm not really interested in being No1 or No10 in Britain. Tennis is an international game." In the ATP tournament in Rotterdam Henman, returning after missing last week with back pain, beat Sweden's No4 seed Thomas Johansson 6-4, 6-4 to reach the second round. He will play the Serbian teenager Novak Djokovic tonight for a quarter-final place. Rusedski lost his way against Nikolay Davydenko in the second round and was overwhelmed by the second seed. The Russian, who has a 4-0 career record against the British No2, won 6-4, 6-1 in 54 minutes. "I expected it to be tougher," he said. "He didn't seem to know what to do. He was serving and volleying in the first set, then went back to the baseline." "It was a strange match," said Rusedski. "I mixed it up early but then lost my advantage to be broken back. He just got better. When I tried staying back I lost most of the points. I didn't know what to do." Arvind Parmar reached the third quarter-final of his career. The world No230 won 6-3, 6-3 against Dominik Meffert, who had beaten him in qualifying. Parwithdrawal of the top seed Rafael Nadal and he took full advantage. "I played more aggressively," he said. "I took a few more chances and it worked." Martina Hingis's comeback gathered pace with a 6-4, 6-3 defeat of Anastasia Myskina to reach the Dubai Open quarterfinals. Today she faces Maria Sharapova, who defeated another Russian, Vera Dushevina, 6-1, 6-0. The world No1 Kim Clijsters will not defend her title at Indian Wells next month after aggravating an ankle injury. 