 John Lloyd, former British No1 What was your most memorable match? Matthew Nelson, Newcastle When I beat John Alexander in the Davis Cup semi-final at Crystal Palace in 1978. It was around the time I was going out with Chris Evert, so there was a lot of interest in that. I managed to lose the first 10 points, and I was 2-0 and 30-0 down and I thought to myself, "If I lose this I will just get absolutely ripped." Fortunately, I hit some great form and went on to win the game. Did you ever have an opponent that caused you more trouble than anyone else, a bit like Federer with Nadal? Andy Pullen, New Brighton Yes, Jimmy Connors. My game fitted right into Jimmy's pocket. All I could do, he could do, and then some. I must have lost to him more than 10 times but I did get one win, on the Seniors' Tour. He actually defaulted thanks to a hamstring injury, but I count that as a win. Do you think Andy Murray will ever win a grand slam? Jonathan Ryder, Morley I think he has a damned good chance. I think he showed last year how good he can be, that he can be very special. I think Wimbledon might be his best surface, because of his style. His serve is getting better and we know his return is the best part of his game at the moment. He has great hands and great speed too. The thing about grass is that not many players know how to play on it. Should the LTA ask your brother for help, in the light of the raft of changes taking place at headquarters? Martyn Kite, Marlow Yes. I think he should have had the job back when John Crowther got it, which was a disaster. I think there are three qualifications for the job: the first is business acumen, and he's got that; the second is that you know the sport, and he was a Davis Cup semi-finalist; and the third is that you have to be financially independent. At the LTA you have to make tough decisions and say "if you fire me, you fire me". You have to be able to make decisions and if people are hurt by them, so be it. Is Wimbledon a help or hindrance to the development of British tennis? Dan Chaplin, Wycombe It's a hindrance, really. It's a great event, but British tennis still has an elitist air about it, an impression of upper- classness. That may seem unfair, but Wimbledon sums that up with the pictures of the ivy and the members around, and when someone from the hierarchy is interviewed they tend to have a plum in their mouths. It seems out of most people's range. There's also the pressure from the press. I did not react well to it at all, and I certainly played my best tennis in the other slams. Murray will face all of it again this year. I'm actually an admirer of Tim Henman for the way he handled it all. Should tennis employ video judges like rugby league and cricket? Chris McLean, Bagshot Tennis has started that way with some line calls, using the Hawkeye system, and I think it's a great idea. As much as anything it brings the crowd into the game, and if players have limited resort to appeals it brings their personalities into the game more too, gets some banter going with the umpires. I think it has to be used to the full extent. 