Time to move on. That was the message from the home secretary when she announced that the government would not be holding a public inquiry into the clashes between police and miners at the Orgreave coking plant during the year-long pit strike 32 years ago. Different world in 1984, said Amber Rudd. It was a long time ago. No point in raking over the past. The site of the coking plant is now Sheffield University’s hugely successful advanced manufacturing centre, a place that brings together academics and business to ensure the best research has a commercial end product. To the extent that there was ever a plan in the 1980s, this was it. The mines, the shipyards, the textile mills and the engineering plants were being shut down because they could not compete but would be be replaced by gleaming-new centres of high-tech industrial excellence.  We know now that Sheffield’s advanced manufacturing sector is the exception not the rule. The story of the past 30 years has been the relentless hollowing-out of industrial Britain, the single biggest change to the British economy in the postwar era. It is a continuing saga that was still in its early stages when Margaret Thatcher sent in the cavalry to deal with the striking colliers.  That there will be no public inquiry into what happened that day in 1984 at least shows some consistency. Why? Because there has never been a satisfactory explanation for why Britain’s industrial heartlands were allowed to rot in the subsequent three decades either. Gordon Brown noted last week that the UK has in effect become two countries, with the prosperous south-east decoupling from a permanently struggling north. Brown was right about that, but de-industrialisation continued apace during his time as chancellor and prime minister.  Manufacturing’s share of the economy has almost halved since Labour came to power in 1997. Since the mid-1990s, the north-west has shed 212,000 manufacturing jobs – almost two-fifths of the total. Productivity in London is 30% above the national average; in all the other big cities of the UK – including Manchester, Glasgow, Liverpool and Sheffield – it is well below the national average. What’s more, the gap between London and other UK cities has got bigger over the last decade despite the impact of the financial crisis on the City. As manufacturing declined, so the financial sector grew more powerful. Financial liberalisation was going on apace when the factories were closing in the name of market forces in the early 1980s; within 18 months of the miners’ strike ending the City was being transformed and expanded by Big Bang. All advanced economies have seen the size of their manufacturing sectors shrink since the 1980s. Bruce Springsteen was singing about lost jobs in the American rust belt in My Hometown, a song that came out in the year of Orgreave, and blue-collar anger and resentment has been a big factor in the 2016 race for the White House. But the decline has been far more pronounced in Britain. America remains a formidable industrial power, with world-beating companies across a range of sectors. The same could not be said of the UK, where the loss of manufacturing capacity has resulted in a chronic balance of payments deficit and an economy over-reliant on debt-driven growth. The deleterious consequences of this profound change in the economy were kept hidden for a surprisingly long time. First, the windfall from North Sea oil disguised a growing manufacturing trade deficit and allowed governments to massage the jobless figures by shifting people off unemployment benefit and into long-term sickness. Labour had a different approach between 1997 and 2010. It took the tax receipts from asset-price booms in the south and recycled them into higher public spending in the north. Then the bubbles went pop, the money ran out and the cuts began. A new report by Christina Beatty and Steve Fothergill from Sheffield Hallam University brings the story up to date. They show how the destruction of industrial jobs has fuelled spending on welfare benefits and in turn intensified the budgetary problems of successive governments. The trends of the last three decades are captured in a series of maps of the UK, which show the concentrations of industrial job losses, incapacity-related benefit claimant rates, spending on tax credits, and the anticipated losses by 2020-21 of all the welfare reforms introduced since the coalition government came to power in 2010. The maps are pretty much identical. Major job losses since the early 1980s were heaviest in the central belt of Scotland, the north-east of England, along a line that stretches along the M62 from Liverpool to Hull, and extends southwards down the M1 into the Midlands. There is a similar distribution for incapacity benefits, tax credits and projected losses from welfare cuts. Spending power was removed from these older industrial areas 30 or so years ago and has never been replaced. Employment rates lag well behind those in the more prosperous parts of Britain and well-paid jobs in factories or in the mines have been replaced by low-paid jobs in call centres and distribution warehouses. The problem is a lack of effective demand, and cutting welfare benefits will make the problem worse not better. Beatty and Fothergill have had a decent stab at calculating how much the destruction of industrial Britain in the 1980s is costing the state. They add up the higher incidence of people on incapacity-related benefits, the greater reliance on tax credits and other top-up payments, and the higher levels of claimant-count unemployment and estimate the total is £20bn-£30bn. Part of the difficulty in being more precise is that there is no hard and fast definition of what constitutes older industrial Britain. Even if the lower estimate is right, it is still a colossal sum. As the report notes: “The financial crisis of 2008 is not the defining event in Britain’s recent economic history, nor even the main cause of the present budget deficit. The source of many current problems lies deeper in the destruction of Britain’s industrial base in the 1980s and all that has flowed from it.” George Osborne talked when he was chancellor of creating a “northern powerhouse”. Theresa May has made all the right noises about reviving the struggling parts of Britain. Yet, the truth is that Britain does not really have an active regional policy. It has competition between poor areas for relatively small dollops of money and it has devolved power to local government that will give them the responsibility of implementing cuts. This, though, does not remotely match up to the scale of the challenge of making up for the mistakes and the neglect of the past. Policymakers should read this report. So should anybody who wants to understand where Britain is economically, financially and politically. It explains a lot. 