 Björn Borg's calm demeanour on court might have earned him the nickname "Ice-Borg", but his racket was full of tension. This was because he wanted as much control over the ball as possible, something he achieved in part by stringing his racket so tightly that it would sometimes break. Although increased string tension gives more control, it also reduces power - but Borg was able to counter this by using his muscular shoulders and weighty racket to give his shots both power and precision. Of course, each player has their own preference when it comes to string tension. These days Andy Roddick is the only player who keeps his racket as tight as the Swede's, but today's players have the advantage of being able to muster extra power due to advances in the equipment they use - which includes the adoption of synthetic strings, the "engine of the racket". While a wide variety of synthetics have become the norm, many club players have yet to fully understand their importance in a racket. They purchase expensive weapons and then economise on the most important part, namely the stringing. And, more often than not, they buy the racket already strung, unlike our European and American counterparts, who always purchase just the frames and then have them strung to their individual specification.  In Borg's day, top professionals used natural gut, as synthetics were frowned on. Now it is virtually the opposite: Rafael Nadal, for example, uses a monofilament string, while Roger Federer employs a hybrid mixture of natural gut and a monofilament fibre.  The change has come about due to the rise of European players and their clay court play, requiring lengthy exchanges that, coupled with improving racket technology, meant their strings had to be longer lasting. That simple requirement hastened the progress of the monofilament strings, which do have a longer racket life. Pete Sampras is a good example of the evolution: he started off with natural gut and ended his career using synthetic. In contrast, the Williams sisters remain loyal to natural gut (although this is rare among the top players). Players need to match their playing strengths to the racket they use, as well as finding strings that complement the racket and their style of play - and it isn't always the case that what the pros use will suit them. Everyone's game is individual and there is equipment to fit the majority of needs. For a club player, synthetic gut, which is durable but softer, is generally recommended. While a multifilament synthetic string might well perform better, it won't last longer. It's also important to remember that to maintain a consistent level of performance, players who regularly play twice a week should change their strings at least twice a year - not just when a string breaks.  • Stringing advice is available from the racket manufacturer as well as TRS-certified stringers working in specialist retail outlets. Find a full list of stringers at tiauk.org 