Guardian readers weigh up the likelihood of another vote on Scottish independence, as Nicola Sturgeon says a new referendum is ‘highly likely’ 
James Walsh and 
Guardian readers 
 Our news story on SNP’s draft proposal for a new independence referendum before Britain exits the European Union attracted almost 10,000 comments - many reflecting an atmosphere of post-Brexit frustration.  SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon told the BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Friday that she is “not rushing to another independence referendum”, but later told BBC Breakfast that a new referendum was “highly likely” within the next two years. Here are 10 reader views on whether the time is right for another independence referendum. Brexit has changed everything. Eurosceptics and Brexiteers played down Scotland's likelihood of voting remain in such numbers and now it has happened like people warned. Independence is back on the cards and very likely to succeed. What must European politicians think listening to the English ranting about the declining, despotic and 'Hitler-esque' (thanks Mr Johnson) situation on the continent whilst on this island there is discord, division and the Union itself under threat. Not sure this is a good idea but they probably feel they have to ask the question given the Scottish vote on Brexit and the lurch to the right by the Tories. Given it needs Westminster approval I don't see an indyref happening any time soon anyway. If it did I'd hope that maybe more people might be prepared to put their trust in our own determination rather than be shackled to a right-wing post-Brexit UK. This is too early - polls show there isn't sufficient support - which could be used as a moral argument for Westminster passing another referendum. We at least need to understand what Brexit entails.It's more akin to the horrible mess we are in as a result of Tory infighting. The SNP are trying to keep their varied ship afloat as the die hards are constantly wanting their voice to prevail. Playing to her own supporters, I think.  About 54% of those polled do want IndyRef2 - either during or after negotiations and Brexit. Fair enough, given that the constitutional position has changed drastically - but that number has gone down from 60% in June. And as the article says, there's no real movement in the numbers who want independence.  Figures are here. During the last Scottish referendum, I was strongly against Scotland separating from the UK. I spent some time reading and commenting on here for a No vote. Now, I have changed my mind. Nicola Sturgeon is quite right that she has a mandate to defend Scotland's vote to stay in the EU. Scotland should now leave the UK, to avoid the Brexit disaster that is unfolding before our eyes. In the 21st century, EU membership is a lot more valuable than UK membership. Nicola doesn't want a referendum just now - she knows she would lose. She is also playing both sides very adeptly.Ms Sturgeon is very aware of the mounting political pressure on Theresa May, and is now instrumental in trying to pull together a coalition to oppose aspects of hard brexit, and is taking plaudits for keeping a cool head during the whole brexit process.An opportunity perhaps to get serious gains for Scotland without running the risk of losing a second referendum, and by making this announcement she has kept the SNP party faithful pot boiling nicely. Clever wee scone, isn't she? It's a fudge. The SNP appear to intend to use the EU referendum vote as a mandate to separate the people who live in the north of the island from those who live on the rest, on an issue separate from the question of Independence. I'll ignore that the SNPs brand of 'Independence' also meant leaving the EU and of course the irony that the SNPs General Election campaign direction (being in League with Labour) is responsible, in part, for the tories winning and the EU referendum in the first place.  I'm reminded of their 'bull in a china-shop' approach to politics also produced the fall of a Labour leadership and the emergence of Thatcher. No one in Scotland is surprised by this announcement given that there is a majority at Holyrood for a second referendum and the Westminster government knew well in advance that the SNP and the Greens would call for a second referendum if Scotland was taken out of the EU against the wishes of the country's voters .  Cameron may have decided that the vote was UK wide, one binding all of the countries in the UK to abide by the outcome but the SNP at Westminster which has 95% of the Scottish representation there disagreed and called for a block on brexit should one country of the UK vote against it . This was dismissed by the British government and the SNP duly voted against the EU referendum bill . There is no alternative to Scotland being taken out of the EU against the wishes of the country's voters other than independence . Well done the SNP for defending Scotland against Brexit and against the UK's new UKIP-inspired government. It was clear before the referendum that if the UK voted leave, Scotland would go for independence again. Keeping the UK together should have been reason enough for anyone who cared about the UK to vote Remain. However, England is increasingly being taken over by right wing nationalists who are hostile not just to the EU, but to Scotland and even to the English who support Remain. The UK government at the very least has to go for a soft Brexit if it is to save the UK politically and economically. Sturgeon is overplaying a very weak hand, due to her need to appease the activists. It will not be many years before the Scots realise that the SNP is acting in its own interests, not that of the people. And that realization is the factor that crushed Labour in Scotland. Scottish voters are nothing if not demanding and fickle. 