 Tearaway Unfolded (PS4) Tearaway Unfolded offers a magical, child-friendly world to explore without patronising capable young players. It stands out thanks to its charming paper-crafted world and the ability to draw your own creations to add to the game, as well as the creative ways in which you use the DualShock 4 controller to interact. Alternatively:Skylanders SuperChargers (multiplatform) , the latest in the toys-to-life series, is an expensive but almost inevitably popular alternative. JW Minecraft: Story Mode (multiplatform) Young teens who’ve grown up playing Minecraft will appreciate experiencing its world anew through the story of Jesse and his/her friends off on an adventure that involves making narrative choices, fighting, and - of course - crafting (PEGI 12 rating thanks to mild bad language). Alternatively:Life Is Strange (PC) is similarly driven by narrative, but its story of young-adult drama mixed with science fiction is only appropriate for older teens. JW The Talos Principle (PS4) A first-person puzzle game like Portal, this gives the player the tools to solve a sequence of increasingly difficult physical puzzles with things like lasers and switchesWith the philosophical questions it asks between these puzzles, it’s recommended for those who really like to use their brain. Alternatively:Mushroom 11 (PC) is a puzzle platformer with a difference, giving you control of an organism that moves through destruction and regrowth. JW Lego Dimensions (multiplatform) Stands out in the toys-to-life genre thanks to the requirement that you actually build the characters and vehicles that are then transported into the game. With split-screen co-op and Lego representations of a range of different franchises, it’s perfect for families to play together. Alternatively: Rocket League (PS4/PC), often described as “football with cars”, also has local multiplayer so the family can play together. JW Super Mario Maker (Wii U) Technically a toolkit that lets you create your own levels based on a range of Mario games from old to new, but because it gives you access to other players’ creations it’s also basically a never-ending Mario game itself. A must-buy for the budding game designer. Alternatively:Yoshi’s Woolly World (Wii U), a charming and well-crafted platformer best played with a friend. JW Code Name: S.T.E.A.M. (3DS) An adventure where you fend off alien invaders in an alternate Victorian era, while playing as real historical figures, all portrayed in comic book style? Sheer genius. The fact that it’s also a deep strategy game from the makers of Fire Emblem is the icing on this inventive, absorbing cake. Alternatively:The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask (3DS): arguably Link’s darkest outing, this apocalyptic N64 classic gets a magnificent portable port. MK Fallout 4 (PC, PS4, Xbox One) Bethesda’s post-apocalyptic vision of a ruined Boston is a twisted wonderland.One of the most ambitious games of the year, it improves on its predecessors by adding complex city building systems, letting you literally rebuild the world – all while shooting radioactive monsters in the face, of course. Alternatively: Xenoblade Chronicles X (Wii U): this Nintendo-exclusive offers another impressiveopen world and a sprawling space fantasy. MK Halo 5: Guardians (Xbox One) Master Chief’s next gen debut introduces a major new character - rival Spartan Locke - and expands the Halo universe with one of its deeper tales. Don’t care for story in your shooters? Also offers the series’ most robust and varied online multiplayer, too. Alternatively:Destiny: The Taken King (PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360): adding in the story that should have been in the original release, Destiny finally lives up to its potential. MK NBA 2K16 (PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PC) With a story-focused career mode directed by Spike Lee, gameplay refinements at every level of the game and complete body scans of professional ballers, NBA 2K16 is inarguably one of the finest basketball simulations ever. A fantastic entry point to the real sport. Alternatively:Pro Evolution Soccer 2016 (PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PC): Fifa has club licences and (laudibly!) added female players, but this is simplybetter. MK Persona 4: Dancing All Night (PS Vita) This genre mash-up combines elements of visual novel, rhythm action, and the RPG roots of the original Persona 4. The result? One of the most unique games of the year, the story drags you in, then the brilliant soundtrack and addictive beat-matching gameplay keeps you hooked. Alternatively:Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture (PS4): a sedate walk around an idyllic village where something terrible has happened. Glacially paced but hauntingly atmospheric. MK 