There’s something quite remarkable about HBO’s long-gestating comedy Insecure. It’s the first pilot this season that comes close to perfection, the sort of show that leaves you feeling giddy, eager to tell all of your friends about it. It comes from Issa Rae, creator of the web series Awkward Black Girl, and while her writing is funny, crisp and original, her performance, as a character called Issa, is also excellent. The secondary characters are all enjoyable (apart from her best friend, who needs a good shake but in a loving way). The hip-hop soundtrack is amazing, featuring many female rappers. Damn, even the couch in her living room is enviable. Insecure is just so good I don’t understand why its title isn’t Excellent Self Esteem. Maybe that’s because Issa is having a hard time getting out of her late 20s. She’s the only black person who works at a non-profit that caters to helping school kids in troubled neighborhoods. The first scene of the show is her being ridiculed by a room full of middle schoolers, which just makes it even more humiliating. Her romance with live-in boyfriend Lawrence (Jay Ellis) is wilting and she’s on the verge of breaking up with him. Meanwhile her successful lawyer friend Molly (Yvonne Orji, the one who needs a shake) can’t meet a good man, maybe because she’s always trying to corral them into a relationship against their will. Issa is at that point in her life that many would call a “quarter-life crisis”, but it’s really just discovering that her life isn’t what she imagined it would be and she’s not sure how to deal with it. Issa describes herself as “aggressively passive”, and often sublimates her angrier rants in fantasy sequences. She copes by rapping to herself in the mirror, sometimes more inventively than others, and freestyling some fire called Broken Pussy at an open mic night. She’s also coping with her problems at home by rekindling a romance with her high school boyfriend Daniel (Y’lan Noel).  There are troubles at home, troubles at the office, troubles with friends, troubles with adulthood. There’s really nothing new about any of the scenarios or storylines, but Rae and co-creator Larry Wilmore (of the recently cancelled The Nightly Show) use a voice that makes it all feel entirely fresh and tinged with unexpected humor and insightful emotional observation. They get as much mileage out of a heartbreaking montage which summarizes Issa and Lawrence’s relationship through the metaphor of their couch as they do a killer cold open about just how awful it is to try to have sex in the shower.  The voice might seem so fresh because there are so few shows centered on black females, especially ones that are not made in the Shonda Rhimes mold. However, I think that not only politicizes a show that isn’t looking to be political but also belittles what Rae is accomplishing. Yes, there are moments that are very insightful about race or specific to the black experience, particularly in the workplace (Issa worries that her coworkers are sending “secret white emails” about her, and Molly is sent to deal with a new colleague who acts a little too “hood”) but they are ancillary to the characters’ universal experience as people.  Insecure is a great show. It’s not a great show about black people or a great show about women, but it is absolutely richer and more distinctive because of those things. It is just damn good, and Rae should be very secure about the future for her show.  