 It’s early days for the Internet of Things: we’ve been promised smarthomes, and so far we can turn on the lights from our phones. It’s a start. The arrival of Apple’s HomeKit and Google’s Brillo will likely help speed smarthomes along, making them easier to install and manage, but in the meantime there are options for home automation. If you’re particularly handy and like a bit of a challenge, you can build your own smarthome system with the Raspberry Pi or another computing board at the centre, but for the rest of us it’s possible to pop into Maplins or PC World and come out with plug-and-play smart home kit, though it isn’t cheap. Here, we’ve tried five pieces of hardware from three manufacturers, all of which are currently available in the UK. Internet-connected security cameras aren’t new, but this is the first to arrive in the UK with facial recognition. Set up the Netatmo Welcome in eye-line of the entrance to your home and as you walk by, it will snap photos of your face and analyse them. If it’s you, it may send a welcome note; if it’s your child, you can get a message to your phone that they got home on time; and if it’s a stranger, you’ll get a notification with a video clip to check who it is. Let’s address the privacy concerns first: all the photos and video are stored locally on an SD card, so Netatmo isn’t data-mining your face. It is web-connected, however, so you can watch a livestream of your home via a smartphone app or website, but the company says any video is encrypted at “bank” quality – whether that reassures you likely depends on who you bank with. The device itself is so easy to set up that the instructions are wordless, just pictures. Simply plug it into your laptop’s USB port, go to the website and click the buttons when told. Now, my Welcome camera warns me if it detects motion in my flat when I’m not around, or if it sees a face it doesn’t recognise. As I live alone, the former (thankfully) has yet to happen, but the latter happens pretty well every time the camera notices me. Facial recognition isn’t easy, especially on device without the benefit of access to a data-mining cloud. Many days in, the Welcome is still trying to learn my face, meaning every few hours I get offered the chance to tap blurry images of myself to “teach” the device what I look like. It’s started to recognise me with my hair up and my glasses on; with my hair let down and glasses off, it still thinks I’m another person. The Netatmo is also convinced the number pad on my microwave is a face, and sends me warnings that it’s in the room. The device itself is a slick silver tube that doesn’t look terrible on a mantle or shelf, though it does have a cord running off the back you’ll need to plug in for power. Aside from the 1080p resolution, wide-angle camera, it has a mic sensitive enough to pick up the rumbling of my fridge, and has frighteningly good night vision – it ruined a night’s sleep by giving me flashbacks to the creepy camera coverage in horror film Paranormal Activity. So far, the Welcome’s utility is limited: I know if someone’s in my flat and can watch them. However, it has the potential to support third-party apps and work with other smart-home gadgets, which could help extend its powers. For example, when it recognises that my boyfriend’s dropped by, it could shift the smart lighting to something more romantic (and, uh, hopefully then turn the camera off), or when a flatmate walks in the door, it could flip the smart lights to her favourite colour to say hello. The Welcome feels like a good first step towards a smarthome. However, it also highlights a downside to a camera-run smart home: how weird it feels to be on camera all the time. As I work from home, the Netatmo watches and listens to me all day, and I’ve already started to modify my behaviour as though someone else can see the feed, even though I’m the only one with access to the camera. Well, hopefully, at least – perhaps GCHQ is now aware of the infrequency with which I do my dishes. Alongside my pile of filthy dishware, my flat is full of dead plants, so Parrot’s Flower Power seemed intriguing: it’s a connected sensor for your greenery, sending updates to your phone when it needs watering, fertiliser and so on. Setting up the Flower Power is easy: insert the included battery, download the free app and let your handset and the device start talking over Bluetooth. Then, set up an account and a profile for your plant. The Flower Power isn’t so clever as to know what’s living in your pot alongside it, so you’ll have to search its database. You can name your plant, take a profile photo, and even find it on a map – a rather odd and unnecessary feature. My doomed mint sits on my desk, and as far as I know, has never moved. Once it’s been sitting in the soil a while, the Flower Power monitors your plant’s health, notifying if it needs more water and tracking its sun exposure – at the time of writing, my mint was 19C, had 16% soil moisture and a sunlight reading of 0.13 (it was evening). My plant’s “to do list” is empty, so presumably those stats are good news. I actually don’t know if those are good figures, and the Flower Power doesn’t say. At one point, the water level dropped to 2% and my poor doomed mint certainly looked droopy, but the system didn’t send me a notification. (I watered it anyway. It’d also be grand if the Flower Power had water storage, so it could top up plants when you’re away from home, but perhaps that will come in future versions. In the meantime, if you leave your potted pal home alone for a week or two, don’t worry that you’ll get guilt-inducing notifications that it’s thirsty with no chance of getting water – you need to be in Bluetooth range to get an update. And that Bluetooth connection is the key problem. My phone can only get updates from my poor mint if I’m close by, rather negating the point for smartphone-delivered updates. It’d be better to forgo Bluetooth in favour of a simple light that flashes if it needs water or fertiliser, or better yet, to connect over Wi-Fi, meaning it could send messages whether my phone and I are nearby or not. Is this the future of home gardening? Hardly. At £50, the Flower Power is an expensive way to monitor your foliage.  However, I’m starting to grow attached to my mint after all this effort, so perhaps with enough IoT technology assistance, it actually stands a chance. The Netatmo weather station appealed to me: leave the little silver tube outside, and it’ll report back the temperature, humidity, air quality and so on without me having to hang out the window to assess the appropriate attire for the day. The outdoor station communicates back to an indoor mothership – a larger silver tube that also gathers data about the inside environment, so you’ll know the temperature, sound level, air quality and so on in that room of your home. For data nerds, this is plain fun on its own: forget checking the BBC for the weather when you’ve got your own personal meteorologist always on call. But once you’ve checked the stats – at the time of writing, 20.7C, 61% humidity and 36 decibels for sound levels – what are you to do with this data? Handily, the Netatmo connects up to If This Then That, a site with “recipes” for automating your smart home. For example, there’s one clever “recipe” that automatically sends a direct message over Twitter to a flatmate when the noise level gets too loud – that’s right, we can now automate awkward passive aggressive housing situations. Or, if the temperature drops below a certain point, it can trigger a space heater controlled by a Belkin Wemo switch, or send an alert if CO2 levels get too high. Will any of those automations change your life? Not likely. But this is an easy way to get a taste for the power of sensors and start playing with using them to make decisions on your behalf – the whole point of a smart home and the IoT. Belkin’s WeMo gives intelligence to dumb appliances via smart plugs that sit between your socket and your toaster, lamp, heater or whatever else you’d like to automate or control via a smartphone. In principle, it’s easy to set up: plug the rather bulky WeMo into the socket, plug your chosen appliance into the WeMo, connect them via the app, and welcome to the future. In practice, it’s not so easy. The app simply would not work with my Android 5 Moto G – there’s a network setting that some Androids need to untick to setup the system, but that setting doesn’t exist on my smartphone. I never did solve it, not even with help from Belkin. However, using a different handset, setup was a doddle. The issue will likely be fixed by a Belkin firmware or app update. Once installed, it was simple to use. Open the app, and tap a button and the lamp we used turned off. You can also set timers or use it with other devices, including via IFTTT. For example, if the temperature in my room – as read by my Netatmo sensor – goes below a certain point, it will notify the Wemo and turn on a heater. There are also smart light bulbs, which work on the same system but require a “hub” to connect them to your Wi-Fi. The same set-up challenges remain, but once it’s up and running you can control that light from your smartphone, set up timers or use IFTTT recipes for a little more automation. Smart lights are great fun at first: who can resist smiling while turning a light on and off via their smartphone? More practically, you can turn the lights on before you get home, perhaps lighting your way up a dark front walk, or flip them on now and then when away to give your house the appearance of being occupied.  Like the switches, the bulbs would be far too expensive to use throughout your entire home. It’s easy to imagine homes of the future where all bulb and power sockets are smart, letting you not only manage their state but track energy use, but using a system such as Belkin to achieve that retroactively would be prohibitively expensive. They are a handy way to solve a specific problem – I look forward to using one on my storage heater, so I can turn it on the last day of a trip away and no longer come home to a cold flat, and anyone who constantly forgets to turn the iron off may appreciate the ability to double check the house isn’t about to burn down from an app rather than run all the way back home. Right now, my flat is monitored via a facial-recognition camera; sensors check the air quality, sound levels and temperature; my lights and heater can be turned on or off from anywhere in the world; and my plant has top-tech monitoring its every need. Has any of this saved me time or effort? No. Has it amused me? Yes. Has it terrified me? Definitely. Smartplugs have their uses: they can track electricity consumption, for example, and homes of the future will likely have them by default, but do we really want cameras watching our every move? Such gadgets are clearly just the first step on the long journey to truly smarthomes, and we need to sort out usability and usefulness, but now’s also the time to consider whether it’s a road we need – or want – to go down. 