 That’s the close of a fine day at the Ageas, amid a fine day of Championship cricket. We’ve already had a couple of results, which is great, and we should get one here tomorrow. Hampshire are 270 ahead with two in hand and a pitch that is doing a bit. Looks plenty, especially with Chris read crook. Thank you so much for joining me today, it’s been a belter. More of the same tomorrow, so come say hi from about half 10. Go well this evening. Ciao. 
 A lot going on at Derby.... Rutherford c Rouse b Coles 0. Derbyshire 4-3 in the 5th of six overs before stumps. 
 Ooohh. Little bit going on at Derby. Nightwatchman Tom Taylor trapped LBW by Matt Coles for 0.Derbyshire 1-2 in 3rd over. 
 Samit’s got a couple in an over! First Smith went for 61, his first 50 of the season, trying to slog-sweep and caught at midwicket, and now Tino is gone for a pair; plumb LBW. Eight overs left and Hampshire’s lead is 247. 
 What a fantastic round of games. A belter at Durham, a brilliant finish in store here at the Ageas. And a couple of beauties already finished. Drink it in, guys. Drink it in. 
 Plenty to look forward to here: What a special day meeting my hero! Thanks @fmuamba you're an inspiration to so many people! #LiveLife 🙏 pic.twitter.com/cxJGmKyWPR 
 Middlesex have a lead but have lost a Rayner. OUT! Rayner is LBW to Leach attempting a sweep and Middlesex are 372/7, leading by 6 runs#MIDvSOM pic.twitter.com/ZPvA2osO0i 
 Right, so Reece Topley’s out for three months. Partial stress fracture of the lumbar spine. No, me neither.  Adam Wheater played a very stupid shot to get out to Fletcher, trying to pull but just being caught at mid-on off the top edge.  Wright got another at Edgbaston, I see. What a finish we have in store there. 
 And now Wright has three! Jennings gone. Warwickshire now on top. Alsop is gone here, too, inside-eding Gurney, who has eight in the match, through to Empty Wessels, still deputising for Chris read behind the stumps. 
 Essex have a wicket. WICKET! David Masters brings to an end Chris Cooke's innings of 59 when he traps him lbw. 215 for 3. Will Bragg 89*. #GlavEss 
 And we have a wicket here! Gurney gets Ervine lbw with one that stays low. 102-4. The lead is 183, which looks quite large. 
 So Woakes-less Warwickshire have their first wicket, Stoneman pinned in front by Wright. There’s plenty of life in that game yet. 
 Tea at Lord’s: TEA - Middx 309-6. Stirling 32*, Rayner 1*. #TeamMiddlesex And at Edgbaston, where Durham are in good shape and the game in the balance. TEA: Lots to do but Durham are right back in this at 67/0, Jennings 42*, Stoneman 23*. 171 runs to win #WARvDUR 
 It’s tea here and, at 99-3, Hampshire are right in charge. Very important, very fine contributions from Smith and Ervine. No risks, nothing flash, just careful accumulation against an attack that, once Fletch and Gurney are off, looks very pedestrian indeed. 
 Btw at the game I’m watching, Smith and Ervine are just accumulating nicely. 161 the lead. Belting finish in prospect with both ball (Duke, not Jake, he’s in Durham now) and pitch doing plenty.  
 In a game that I had all but written off (Derby-Kent), there may just be a little bit of life yet. Shiv Thakor’s excellent game has continued - he’s followed a ton with three-fer - and Kent are still 207 off with three wickets in hand. Follow-on, perchance? 
 And Kervezee (In Love) has done it! He sends Shreck for a couple of fours to seal the job: Worcestershire beat Leicestershire by seven wickets having bowled the hosts out for 43, the lowest Champo total since the Lankys skittled Essex for 20 in 2013.  Worcestershire become the first team to win a game in the Champo this season having elected not to have a toss, too. 
 (You drive me) Kervezee has obviously got a teetime near Leicester; he wants to get things done, and has 17 off 12. Worcester require ten to win. 
 Congratulations Lancashire: .@LancsCCC go top of the @CountyChamp table & this is first time we have won first 3 games of season at @EmiratesOT since 1952! 
 So we have our first result! Wagner gets Curran and Surrey - sans Burns - are nine down and thus all out for 107. They lose by an innings and 96, which is a lot. Which result will come next? Worcestershire’s dismantling of Leicestershire, I reckon. Young Joe Clarke to see the Pears home in what will forever be known as Lloyds Leach’s match. 
 One of the finest achievements of the county season to date? Batted @_TC59 who moves to his fifty from 103 balls with 9x4 pic.twitter.com/BwIb2ZEuU3 
 FYI folks - Surrey women are playing Middlesex women at the Oval tonight. Entry is free, why not go down? The bars are all open and it should be a neat little showcase for the women’s county game. Great to have England legend @Lottie2323 @surreycricket ! One signature turned into a stampede 🙌🏾 pic.twitter.com/9IXE6B9Brx 
 And I think we are going to get our first result very soon indeed... With Burns absent, just one Surrey wicket stands. Hopefully Tom Curran can keep fighting the good fight and carry his bat. 11 for Jarvis is a magnificent effort. Surrey 84-8...Pillans LBW b Jarvis 4 Updated
 I have to say, this is an absolutely *insert swear* spectacular round of Championship matches, isn’t it? Sounds like there’s a bit of life in all the pitches - bar Derby, perhaps, and - again, with that dishonourable exception - we are going to get results all over the shop. All sorts of different bowlers are taking wickets and there are some big runs about too. Lovely stuff. 
 Fun, depending on which team you support. FUN FACT: Glamorgan haven't won a game of cricket in any format since 31st July 2015. #funfact 
 This game is on the move, and Fletcher and Gurney have another wicket each. Adams got a beauty from Fletch, which took the edge and was well pouched at slip by Christian, then Gurney has squared up and bowled Dawson. The lead is 105 and we have a veritable belter on our hands. 
 Just scenes at Grace Road. Total carnage at @leicsccc this morning - 10 wkts in the session, three run outs & lots of angry/sad players 😀 😩https://t.co/m6Jvga2nu6 
 Opening bat Tom Curran still there, though: .@surreycricket have lost 4 wickets for 5 runs in 21 balls. Currently @KyleJarv89 has 3-35 & @TomBaildog 2-13 #LANvSUR 
 9-27 since yesterday morning. Who does he think he is, Chris Woakes? @joeleach230 finishes with career best match figures of 9-109. Since start of play yesterday he has taken 9-27 after 0-82 on the first day! 
 Tell you what, there’s been so much going on, I’d rather forgotten about this excellent match at Edgbaston. Durham need 237 to win. What a belter. Congrats to James Weighell on maiden 5 wkt haul for @DurhamCricket v @WarwickshireCCC pic.twitter.com/4etGDaUKcC 