 It was not only the greatest of tennis matches it was also the most haunting. Right from the off, the symmetry was eerie at the Wimbledon men's singles final. Rain stopped play before it had time to start, and there was John McEnroe - as brilliant a telly pundit as he was a player - cajoling answers out of the introverted Bjorn Borg. Borg himself is still something of a ghost at Wimbledon. Last year was only the second time he had returned since his defeat by McEnroe in 1981, and it still makes my heart pitter-patter to see him back, a silver-haired survivor. Was it true about all your rituals, McEnroe asked Borg. Yes, he replied, with an embarrassed smile. Same green pinstripe top, same hotel, same food at the same times, the same route to Wimbledon, six hours' practice every day at the Cumberland Club, unshaven through the tournament, no sex, and then victory on the final day. He explained, in almost a whisper, how it had worked for five years and then he lost to McEnroe, and the whole edifice crumbled. Nothing made sense any more. Did you know you would quit after that match, McEnroe asked him? Borg ummed and ahhed, but the way he explained it, or didn't, you knew there was only one answer.  On that day in 1981, Wimbledon witnessed a match between two extraordinary sportsmen. McEnroe was reaching his pinnacle, Borg was tumbling from his. They could not have been more different - Borg, the baseline ice-man, unflappable, every emotion held in check. McEnroe, the supreme serve-volleyer, verbose, petulant, Baby Crockett with a tennis racket in his hand. McEnroe had so nearly beaten Borg in 1980. But Borg held his nerve in an epic five-setter despite losing the tie-break of tie-breaks 18-16 to win what was widely regarded as the finest final of all time - till Sunday. A year later McEnroe was to get his revenge with his first Wimbledon triumph at 22. Borg, denied a sixth successive victory and then beaten by McEnroe in the US Open, walked away from the game soon after, as vulnerable off court as he had been invincible on it. He was only 26 when he quit. Twenty-seven years on, we were waiting for Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, again right-hander v left-hander, again the two great rivals of their age. Federer was 26, had won five Wimbledons on the trot, and had held his nerve to beat Nadal in last year's epic five-setter. Nadal was 22, and looking for his first Wimbledon title after two losing finals. The Fed was every bit as imperturbable as the CyBorg had been. And, like the master, he had the eyes of an assassin. Meanwhile, Nadal was every bit as feral as McEnroe - though this expressed itself through grunt, muscle and grace rather than bad behaviour.  We were watching a re-enactment of history. And to make it even more poignant, we were watching it alongside the original protagonists. When the cameras closed in on McEnroe and Borg between shots, we could have been gazing into Federer and Nadal's future. Of course, it was going to be a legendary match. By the fourth set, every point had become its own self-contained drama as Federer rediscovered the Rasputin in him and refused to go quietly. In the audience, teeth chattered in the evening cold and every face wore a smile. Except for Federer's girlfriend, Mirka Vavrinec, who had turned ashen over four hours and looked throughout as if she was about to be sick. In the end he lost. He had to lose. History decreed he would. My mother was crestfallen, as if there had been a death in the family. "At least he went down with dignity, at least he was still fighting," she said. Forty-one matches unbeaten at Wimbledon. Just like Borg. Then the thudding finality of defeat. Just like Borg. Rafa was a wonderful winner. He climbed on the roof, he hugged his mum and dad and Uncle Toni who had coached him since he was four, he ran to the royal box to offer a sweaty hand to the Spanish prince and princess. He bit the trophy to make sure it was real, and the face of the golden boy glistened in the fading sun. By the time the camera returned to the Fed, he had slipped into his white flannels and cardigan. Not a hint of perspiration, nor a hair out of place, he could have stepped straight out of The Great Gatsby. But what was going on inside? What was he holding back?  Some of us feared that July 6 2008 would mirror July 4 1981 too perfectly; that Federer would do a Borg and walk away once and for all. At 9.20pm, the Fed was asked what plans he had for the future. "I'll be back next year," he said. You could hear the relief all round SW19, followed by the loudest cheer of the day. 