 As a youngster, one of my most vivid memories is of crying myself to sleep after watching Little Mo. This made-for-TV weepy portraying the life of one of the greats of women's tennis, Maureen Connolly, whose brilliant reign over the game ended abruptly as a result of a serious leg injury, made an indelible mark on me. In 1953, Connolly became the first woman to achieve the grand slam, when she captured the Australian, French, Wimbledon and US singles titles. It is hard to imagine what other feats she could have achieved had her career not ended so suddenly. Although tennis has altered dramatically over the years, her determination, powerful ground-strokes and will to win would have seen her flourish in any era. Her concentration was remarkable. In her autobiography, Forehand Drive (1957), she said: 'All I ever see is my opponent. You could set off dynamite in the next court and I wouldn't notice.' The irrepressible Connolly hurtled everywhere at 100 miles per hour, as if a sixth sense had told her that her time playing the game she loved would be short. Maureen Catherine Connolly was born in San Diego in 1934. As a child she was a ball girl at her local club, where she began to learn the game. The resident professional, Wilbur Folsom, sold Mo her first racket for $1.50 and advised her to change from being a leftie to playing with her right hand. The transition was difficult, but it worked for her. After a few years under Folsom's tutelage, she received complimentary membership to the Balboa tennis club, opening the way for her meeting with one of the world's greatest ever coaches, Eleanor 'Teach' Tennant. Tennant was the professional at the Beverly Hills club, where she gave lessons to Hollywood stars such as Clark Gable, Errol Flynn and Marlene Dietrich. She had coached both Alice Marble and Bobby Riggs to the singles titles at Wimbledon in 1939. A meeting was arranged when Connolly was 12; the dynamic duo were on their way to the top of the game. Tennant was a disciplinarian, but both teacher and student had the same desire for success. Tennant instilled into her pupil a sense of loathing for her opponents that made Connolly want to blast them off the court, showing no mercy. This earned her an early nickname of 'Killer in Pigtails'. Later, her forceful ground-strokes and accuracy led to her much more famous nickname of 'Little Mo', a reference to the US Battleship Missouri - Big Mo. Tennant's inluence was never more apparent than during the US Championships of 1951. Connolly was scheduled to play Doris Hart, whom she idolised, in the semi-final. Teach, aware of Little Mo's hero worship, told his player that Hart was out to give her a lesson. Connolly was hurt, but Teach's words had the desired effect. Little Mo won a close match 6-4, 6-4. Her subsequent victory over Shirley Fry, in three hard-fought sets, ensured her place in history as the youngest ever winner of the ladies' US crown at just 16. The following year she played her first Wimbledon; the tournament marked the end of her often turbulent relationship with her coach. Connolly arrived carrying a shoulder injury and immediately Teach instructed her to withdraw. As uncompromising and demanding as her coach, Connolly refused. They argued bitterly. Their partnership was over. Connolly's decision to play was vindicated as she went on to win the first of three Wimbledon titles. After retaining her US crown in 1952, Mo returned to San Diego where the proud locals held a parade in her honour. During the ceremony they presented her with a horse, Colonel Merryboy. Horses had been Little Mo's childhood love and she was delighted. From the US title in 1951 until Wimbledon 1954, Little Mo dominated women's tennis. She lost only four matches throughout her career and won nine grand-slam event singles titles. But, just before the US Championships of 1954, and not long after winning her third Wimbledon, disaster struck. While out riding her horse she collided with a truck and sustained a horrific leg injury that would end her tennis career at the age of 19. In 1955, Maureen Connolly married Norman Brinker, a member of the 1952 US Olympic equestrian team, who was well placed to share her love of horses. The couple had two children and Connolly coached for a time as well as working as a sports journalist. She was elected to both the International Tennis Hall of Fame and the International Women's Sports Hall of Fame. In 1968, she co-founded the Maureen Connolly Brinker Tennis Foundation, which hosts tournaments across America and offers thousands of children the opportunity to play tennis. In June 1969, on the eve of Wimbledon, Maureen Connolly Brinker died, three years after she had first been diagnosed with cancer. She was only 34. In her all-too-brief career in the top flight of tennis, she had dominated the sport but, perhaps just as importantly, in her later life she did not dwell on the past, instead giving the benefit of her experience to others. Cruel misfortune followed her remarkable success and it is for coping with life's lows as well as sport's highs that she still deserves to be celebrated. 