Sydney Opera House, SydneyThe ‘seven-headed soul monster’ had audiences in Australia on their feet with an exuberant live performance of their reggae, funk and dub 
Chelsea Paddy 
 It may have been Australia Day, and a dreary one at that, but at the Sydney Opera House New Zealanders were congregating at the city’s famous landmark. Fat Freddy’s Drop, New Zealand’s soi-disant “seven-headed soul monster”, were billboarded for a solo performance in the concert hall as part of the venue’s summer program. From their humble beginnings in the 90s, as a group of friends getting together to jam, Fat Freddy’s have come a long way. These days they can pull crowds of 10,000 in London, pack out shows across Europe and always receive a warm (sold out, of course) welcome in their home country. This became an antipodean welcome as it extended across the Tasman to Australian shores. Fat Freddy’s Drop, a “silly name that stuck” after the seven-piece funk machine took a 48 hour LSD trip (Fat Freddy’s was the drug’s street name at the time), have an unusual yet euphonic sound, sometimes known as Aotearoa roots music. Their first album, Based on a True Story, went nine times platinum and remained in New Zealand’s top 40 charts for over two years after its release in 2005. Outside of the country, however, many of their tracks are considered too long and challenging for mainstream radio, making the group’s success both intriguing and impressive. But years of traipsing local and international gig circuits have cemented Fat Freddy’s repertoire as a must-see live gig. And fans in Sydney were on their feet before the group had picked up a single instrument. Dressed in dapper suit jackets and shirts, the band opened with Blackbird, while the walls of the Opera House seem to rattle with the roars of the crowd. Ten years after its release, single Wandering Eye is still a sign of changing seasons in New Zealand where, despite what date the calendar might announce, it isn’t truly summer until heard on the radio. It became one of many classics that turned up on the setlist, including Ernie and This Room. Singles like Clean the House and Mother Mother, from the latest album Blackbird had a more soulful R&B feel, with deep bass lines and catchy synthesiser pulses.  The modish funk vibe and bass drops from DJ Fitchie reverberated around the concert hall. It had everyone and everything shaking, and a side speaker was taped down after falling from its perch next to keyboardist, Dobie Blaze. Other highlights included Joe Dukie’s vocals, solos from trumpeter Tony Chang, sensational saxophone arias from Chopper Reedz and the wordsmith talent of MC Slave’s reggae-raps.  While riffs and hooks were shared among band members, multi-instrumentalist Hopepa (a play on the name Joseph in Maori) inevitably stole the show with his exuberance, zeal and musical talent. Never has there been a man so proud to shake his booty for the crowd, nor one so aware of exactly how many seconds he has to scramble back across the stage for his next melody, be it on the trombone, tuba or harmonica. Fat Freddy’s Drop have a habit of never playing hits back to back – instead hitting audiences with an ever refreshed setlist. Singles become difficult to recognise, so meticulously reworked are they into new sounds that come jam-packed with instrumentals, riffs and electrifying guitar solos from Jetlag Johnson – extended versions that a standard studio album doesn’t necessarily have room for. Fat Freddy’s Drop are the epitome of old school cool and continue to embody their eclectic flavour of music, lyrics and beats. Drawing the show to an end with their encore remixed production of Shiverman, the gentleman seated next to me summed the show up, “You know what love, I’m 70 years old and I’ve seen great live acts in my time. But these guys are bloody marvellous. I don’t think it gets much better than this.” 