 Greg Rusedski has always been renowned as a fighter but he now faces a huge task to re-establish himself on the world stage, having slipped to No100 in the rankings. He has won only five matches since his defeat by Andy Roddick in the second round of Wimbledon last year, so if he were to make his comeback in the Nasdaq-100 Masters event in Key Biscayne this month he would have to start in the qualifying rounds. He may well prefer instead to play in a couple of minor tournaments to ease his way back.  It seems unlikely he will play much during the clay-court season in the spring but he will now be available for the Davis Cup tie away to Luxembourg over the Easter weekend, which Great Britain must win to stand a chance of getting back into the world group later in the year. John Lloyd, the former British Davis Cup captain who is a close friend, suggested yesterday that Rusedski "could go out and win Wimbledon" on the back of being cleared. Brave words, but highly unlikely. Rusedski will be 31 this September, and back, foot and knee injuries have severely curtailed his competitive play in recent years. There is no doubt that he will make Wimbledon his No1 priority, as he has done every year since he took British citizenship in 1995, losing to Pete Sampras in the fourth round. But since then, apart from one quarter-final in 1997, which he lost to the Frenchman Cédric Pioline, he has failed to get beyond the last 16. In last year's US Open he appeared a spent force, and his physical frailty was underlined during Britain's defeat in the Davis Cup world group play-off against Morocco in Casablanca last September. He lost the fifth and deciding rubber against Hicham Arazi, and at one point seemed on the verge of total collapse. It was at this event, though, that he first heard he had failed a dope test. Rusedski did not play any more tennis, and finished the year outside the world's top 100 for the first time since 1994. He made his comeback in Australia in January, a return that coincided with his failed test being made public. He managed a couple of victories in the Adelaide and Sydney tournaments but was beaten in the first round of the Australian Open. He has stayed upbeat about his physical condition, though, given that since 1999 he has had operations on both feet, and further surgery on his knee this time last year. Assuming he stays fit, and despite not now being ranked high enough for an automatic berth in the Masters Series, the main events outside the grand slams, Rusedski could make a brisk climb back up if he chooses his tournaments carefully. Rusedski innocent but the ATP guilty of incompetence Henman: he was never the type Stephen Bierley: Probably the most inept governing body in the world 