Downing Street denies reports that government wants to sign up Ukip leader to help build bridges with Donald Trump 
Matthew Weaver and 
Peter Walker 
 Downing Street has denied reports that the interim Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, could act as a go-between to the US president-elect, Donald Trump.  The Daily Telegraph reported that the international trade secretary, Liam Fox, intended to speak to Farage before holding talks with senior Trump advisers.  It claimed the move was part of an attempt to build bridges with the incoming administration to further Britain’s “special relationship” with the US.  The suggestion was rejected by both Conservative and Ukip sources. A No 10 spokesman said: “Dr Fox has no plans to talk to Mr Farage.”  A friend of Farage is reported to have dismissed the story as “absolute nonsense”.  Farage, who appeared alongside Trump during his campaign, has hinted that he expects to be rewarded with a role in the Trump administration. Speaking on Tuesday, he half-jokingly told ITV The Agenda: “If he [Trump] did offer me a role I would quite like to be his ambassador to the European Union.” .@Nigel_Farage tells @Peston what his dream job working for @realDonaldTrump would be ...it might surprise you #TheAgenda pic.twitter.com/qHwTa7V6kQ Theresa May spoke with Trump on Thursday morning in a call in which the president-elect made reference to the famously close relationship between Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher as a hopeful aim for their ties, a Downing Street source said. Trump “alluded to their relationship as a way to underline that he was keen to have a good personal working relationship too”, a source said. The call came after concerns that the much-vaunted special relationship with the US might have suffered an early setback under Trump as he spoke to nine other world leaders in the 24 hours after his election win before speaking with May. In an interview with TalkRadio recorded before he was due to fly to the US, Farage frequently joked about the idea of Trump sexually assaulting May. Imagining the meeting, he said: “Don’t touch her for goodness sake,” he added, before laughing. Asked about the likely behaviour of Trump, who has been accused of a series of sexual assaults, which he denies, Farage added: “If it comes to it, I could be there as the responsible adult role, to make sure everything’s OK.” Lord Marland, David Cameron’s former trade envoy, said Trump’s victory was a “great opportunity to rebuild alliances”. Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, he said: “Our relationship with America has been rocky in terms of trade recently because of the onslaught they had against our banks and against BP and I think business needs certainty. If Mr Trump can show there is a greater certainty and that he is open for business then I think it is very good for British business.” He added: “Post Brexit and post Trump, both countries are going to be looking for allies with which to increase their trade. Both countries will be looking for quick-fix partners post these events and I have no doubt that Trump, whose mother was born in Scotland ... will be looking very favourably on economic relationships with the UK.” Asked about British tax disputes with US companies such as Starbucks, Uber and Google, Marland said: “If we launch an assault on those companies we are going to get it in return. So there is going to have to be give and take.” 