Shares in outsourcing group Capita have crashed to a 10-year low after the company issued a second profit warning in three months and said it would start to sell assets. The shares lost 7.6% to 521p and were the biggest loser in the FTSE 100 by mid-morning. Fifteen months ago they were changing hands at 1046p and the shares are the FTSE 100’s biggest loser this year. The company – which provides services ranging from electronic tagging for offenders to store card services for retailers – said it would sell assets and trim costs to protect its balance sheet after Brexit-related client indecision prompted it to cut its profit forecast for the second time in three months. Chief executive Andy Parker said he was “absolutely” confident that the company’s actions would allay the need to raise capital or cut the company’s dividend. But he said: “There’s been a fallaway in what we would call discretionary spend, like training and employee benefits. People are delaying making decisions on implementing technology, so there is a whole host of things going on,” he said. Capita – which also recruits for the army and runs business travel, debt collection and translation services and employs 75,000 staff – said it now expects 2016 underlying profit before tax to be at least £515m. Three months ago the firm was predicting £535m to £555m, and prior to that it was expecting £614m. Net debt is now expected to be some 2.9 times earnings before interest, depreciation and amortisation – up from a target already raised to 2.7 times in September. The ratio would fall to under 2.5 times by the time asset sales are completed, Capita said. The September downgrade had already alarmed investors and the market value has halved since then, bringing into doubt its dividend and the possibility of a capital hike. Rival outsourcer Mitie has also issued two profit warnings in as many months. Outsourcers have struggled since Britain’s vote in June to leave the European Union as clients have delayed making decisions due to uncertainty and budgets remain constrained. Capita said it would now sell the majority of its Capita Asset Services division, which expects operating profit of £60m in 2016. Capita has hired Goldman Sachs to sell the unit and has already had interest, Parker said. Capita is predominantly UK-based, unlike bigger rivals such as G4S and Serco that have been sheltered to a large degree from Brexit-related fallout by their bigger geographical footprint. 