The City of London is working up plans to secure a deal that will allow its different sectors to keep trading with Europe after Britain leaves the EU. Senior officials are keen to ensure the UK maintains full access to the European Union through “passporting” deals that require the imposition of regulations at the same level as those in the EU. The deal would allow trade to continue from London through what will become the 27-nation bloc. “The banking sector unequivocally wants to maintain the current level of full access to the EU market, to ensure that businesses and customers across Europe can still be served by UK-based banks,” said Anthony Browne, the chief executive of the British Bankers’ Association.  He issued his remarks after telling the Financial Times that a deal like the one adopted by Switzerland – whose life insurance business has access to the single market – could be a route to follow, although the model would be improved on. The practicalities of achieving access to the single market are still to be hammered out and the process could take years. A number of City bodies are working on ideas for the government to pursue, including the BBA, CityUK – another lobby group – and a panel of bank chairs, led by Shriti Vadera, chairwoman of the UK arm of Santander.    While the Financial Times reported that City officials had given up on retaining universal access to the single market, Chris Cummings, chief executive of CityUK, said discussions were still under way. “At this stage, it is too early to be talking about conclusions for the Brexit negotiations. The financial and related professional services industry is working hard to prepare a detailed assessment of the priorities that matter most to our customers and clients so that we can help ministers and officials best prepare for the upcoming negotiations,” said Cummings.  “Mutually beneficial trade and investment links that allow the UK to trade freely with the EU and vice-versa and continued access to skilled talent from the EU and the rest of the world remain very important for our industry. Our job is to ensure policymakers appreciate the importance of financial and related professional services to the UK economy.” An arrangement like the one secured by Norway, which has access to the single market and therefore must accept the free movement of people, is thought to be the least likely outcome.     