Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, London Gore, humour and Hattie Morahan cut to the quick in Dominic Dromgoole’s whip-sharp production of The Changeling 
Susannah Clapp 
 It is hard after this to think of The Changeling being staged in another theatre. That is, of course, ridiculous. The bloodiness and grisly humour of Thomas Middleton and William Rowley’s play, probably written in 1622, can easily find echoes in the 21st century. Yet in Dominic Dromgoole’s production it might have been crafted for the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. This glowing coffer, with its beeswax candles, its gold leaf and its concealed corners, is a mirror of the labyrinthine, claustrophobic drama. As wood panels slide shut at the back of the auditorium, spectators are locked into a world of darkness, punctuated by flashes of light; actors and audience seem at moments to be holding on to the same breath. They are being primed for a black plot bejewelled with piercing phrases. Or, rather, two intertwined plots, linked by disguises and by characters that dissolve in madness and in love. Beatrice-Joanna, who is introduced as holy, falls in love and immediately plans a murder to get rid of the now redundant man she had been going to marry. Hattie Morahan has two voices for this character with two names: a light but steady normal delivery and a startling, deep register. She swoops down the scale with the alacrity of the Edwardian contralto Dame Clara Butt looking for the lost chord. The effect is eerie, sometimes grotesque, often hypnotic. So is Bea-Jo, who blunders into bed with the man who has bumped off her fiance and, to conceal the fact that she is not a virgin, gets her maid to substitute for her on her wedding night. As her attitude towards her accomplice changes from repulsion to attraction, Morahan becomes round-eyed, caught in headlights. Yet the clarity of her delivery is absolute. This is the gift of Dromgoole’s production: lines are landed with a precision that time and again whips them into new life. From now on “dinner” will always be “belly hour” to me. Pearce Quigley and Thalissa Teixeira are particularly crisp: the former a Globe stalwart, the latter a name to watch. The Changeling has been more disturbing. The lunatics of the subplot – some faking madness, some genuinely afflicted – cast insufficient shadow, with their writhings and jumpings. Yet the play can never have been so acutely funny. And that is central. Alongside the gore of stabbings and severed fingers, humour is a short cut to insight. “He can laugh,” says one character. “I perceive by that he is no beast.” • Until 1 March. Box office: 020-7401 9919. Venue: Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, London 