Despite a death threat, her office building being vandalised, receiving more abuse on social media than ever, and being asked to stand aside for a man in Labour’s leadership challenge, Angela Eagle says she is still optimistic 
Anushka Asthana, political editor 
 When Angela Eagle laid out her challenge to Jeremy Corbyn, her arms raised in a pink jacket and flanked by two bright banners with her first name scrawled across them, she declared herself a “strong Labour woman”. After eight tumultuous days filled with allegations of harassment and intimidation, including a death threat that resulted in an arrest, and an alleged brick thrown through a window of her constituency building, her leadership hopes were crushed as she made good on a deal and stepped aside for a slightly more popular male colleague. Today she is sitting on a sofa in the members’ centre in parliament. It’s recess, so the space is empty and quiet, apart from the slight buzz of researchers having lunch in the grand atrium of Portcullis House next door. Eagle twists around and looks at an image on the front of the latest House magazine, which is propped up on otherwise bare shelves in the middle of the room. The new prime minister is standing between tall black gates, her hand raised into a wave with a slight smile on her lips, under the headline, “Theresa May rises to power”, which uses a similar scrawled handwriting style as Eagle’s logo.ƒ Is what happened – putting herself forward as a female candidate, only to be asked to step aside for Owen Smith – an example of Labour slipping behind the Tories on the representation of women at the highest ranks? Eagle breaks into a grin as she turns back around. “Yes, we do have to practise what we preach as the party of equality,” she says. There is a pause, a momentary roll of the eyes, and then: “One of these days.” It is a rare flicker of regret – bitterness even – from a woman who otherwise repeatedly states that she’s positive, optimistic and forward-looking. “There’s no point being sore. Those negative emotions don’t get you anywhere.” Eagle admits she would have liked more time to make her case. But colleagues didn’t want that. Then she slips into discussions of policies, many centred on rebalancing the economy. She sounds like a woman in line to become shadow chancellor if Smith defies the polls and beats Corbyn to the top job. “I have no idea,” she says quickly, before delivering the mantra adopted by many Labour MPs this summer: “I want Owen to win.” Not that she was impressed by his recent slip-up, when his policy-packed speech (she approves of an approach that is more than just “tinkering with the edges of capitalism”) was overshadowed by a clumsy promise to “smash [the prime minister] back on her heels”. “He should have, and he has, apologised,” says Eagle, adding that as someone who has been the butt of cruel words, “I know language matters”. “We’ve all got a responsibility to be sensitive with our use of language. Owen has shown a capacity to recognise and apologise for insensitivity, and that’s important.” But Eagle, who can be cutting at times, says she’s having none of what she calls an “extraordinarily disingenuous” intervention by a Corbyn spokesman, who urged Smith to take a more careful tone “as many members, including many female Labour MPs, have said they feel intimidated by aggressive language. Instead, she points back to a 2014 controversy when shadow chancellor John McDonnell was alleged to have talked about “lynching” a female Tory MP. (A spokesman for McDonnell said that he was simply repeating what a constituent of the MP in question had shouted during an event.) Eagle looks tired and a little drained, but she has a calm, almost phlegmatic aura, as if she has been turning to yoga or meditation to relax and stay positive after the bruising and somewhat frantic period of her leadership bid. “I wish,” she says, snorting out a laugh, sitting on the edge of her comfortable chair. “I did go to the cinema last night, to see Star Trek Beyond. It’s not as good as Into Darkness, I think,” she says, breaking out of the politics for a moment, before adding: “I watched the original series, but I wouldn’t say I’m a Trekkie.” Eagle describes her trip to the movies as the “first day” she’s had off for a while, although she then admits spending most of it “working here in parliament”. “OK, an evening off,” she adds. Her smile serves to evaporate a slight prickliness that settled at the beginning of our meeting. Now her mood is stoic, shot through with moments of sarcasm and dry humour. She is resigned about failing to attract enough nominations to top Smith, saying that her time in politics has taught her that however “intensely personal” it feels when you lose, it often isn’t. “I’m inured to it now,” she says. “You put yourself forward and people like you or they don’t. I was extremely grateful for the stalwart support. “It is best not to take it personally. Otherwise you become a completely screwed-up individual that hates the world, and I don’t think that is the definition of me.” Not that she was totally unaffected by the experience, randomly pausing to throw in the phrase, “slings and arrows” at one point while discussing her future prospects. “Sorry, I’m quoting Shakespeare,” she adds, in an amused, eye-rolling response to the blank look she is getting. “It’s Hamlet ... although I’m slightly more optimistic than him,” she adds, her eyes brightening. Then she’s back into determined positivity. “To be in politics, to be in progressive politics, to be in the Labour party,” she says, “you have to be optimistic about people.” It might not feel that way to Jeremy Corbyn, who is facing a brutal fight from his own MPs – Eagle among them – who seem deeply pessimistic about him and his electoral prospects, and are not shy of saying so. The party’s soul-searching means that as other Westminster politicians slip away for post-referendum holidays, Labour politicians are gearing up for what appears ready to be a bare-knuckle fight for their futures. The Wallasey MP has been the focus of a great deal of attention since triggering the contest, with claims and counter-claims about threats and abuse flying around. “Go on social media and look yourself,” she says, before adding that she doesn’t want to “dwell on it” because “if I talk about it too much I should get a load more”. In part, that reluctance is because she’s irritated by the way people respond differently to male and female MPs. “If men get death threats, they stand up and are seen as brave. When women get death threats, they are portrayed as if they are victims. I am not a victim,” she says. What about that smashed window at her constituency workplace? Eagle has faced a torrent of abuse about the allegation, with a YouTube video, tagged “citizen journalism”, demonstrating that the window was on to a stairwell in a communal part of the building, rather than her office. Some sceptics are now asking if there ever was a brick. “I’ve been in that building for a lot of my 24 years as an MP, it was the night of my launch, we’d never had a brick through the window before. People can draw their own conclusions,” says Eagle, sounding exasperated, arguing that it was not her who raised the issue of the window – which was undoubtedly broken – in the first place. “It was reported in my local news, and now if you look at Twitter I’m meant to have done it myself, ordered it to be done ... It is a joke. Its post-truth politics and its nonsensical. I’m not a liar.” Eagle says women in particular have been put off the idea of a career in politics by “what has been doled out in the last period”. But she admits tensions predate the Labour contest, arguing that female colleagues became very scared following the killing of the MP Jo Cox. Eagle agrees that it felt as if there was a collective pause in the immediate aftermath of Cox’s death; a moment in which people expressed appreciation for MPs instead of anger. “That lasted about five seconds,” she says sadly. “When I first came into parliament, there was far too much deference around politicians, and now it has gone too far the other way. Now, it is open contempt,” she says, revealing that she has even faced homophobia for the first time. Eagle became the only “out lesbian” sitting MP in 1997, five years after she was first elected, to a very positive response. “The most trouble I’ve had with it is in the last month”, she reveals, in relation to something that has been reported to the party’s compliance unit. Part of the problem cited by Eagle is social media, which has “magnified” all forms of abuse, alongside more “precarious, difficult, tumultuous political times”. She sums it up thus: “We are in an era where the politics of grievance seems to be on the rise, rather than the politics of solidarity.” So what is Labour’s response? Eagle talks about a “Marshall plan” for some of the most disadvantaged communities in Britain. “When I think back to when I was young in the 1960s and 70s, there were far more chances for people like me from working-class backgrounds,” she says. “But people have found it harder and harder ... to live a reasonably happy life with gradually increasing prosperity.” She argues that when people’s wages are being undercut as a result of migration, then the issues – such as exploitative employers or “weak” trade unions – have to be tackled head-on. But she also suggests that there is a more “deep-seated” problem; of a society in which people’s skills are becoming increasingly redundant in the face of an ever-changing world of work. Labour has to catch up with the challenges of the “age of Uber”. Taking on the impact on that industry, she says black-cab drivers are frustrated that technology has suddenly made years of “knowledge acquisition less valuable than it used to be”. But “it was the same for my dad in the print trade,” she says. “There is an even bigger problem looming up the track – that soon there won’t be any drivers of cars, because they will all be driverless, and then what are you going to do?” Eagle says the Labour party was created to help ensure fairness in the workplace during an industrial revolution, and now has to adapt to a technological one. But why can’t Corbyn, with his huge membership mandate, lead the revolution? Eagle argues that the EU referendum threw up “a serious issue with Jeremy being able to communicate with the wider Labour electorate”. She also accuses the leadership team of failing to reach out, saying that as a senior woman in a finance role, she scheduled a meeting every week with John McDonnell, to discuss economics. “Every single one of them, except one, in nine months was cancelled.” McDonnell’s spokesman says that this was just normal rescheduling, and claims that her office was unwilling to work constructively. She denies such claims. “I’ve tried serving,” she says. “I’ve done my damnedest, and it was not reciprocated.” She won’t be drawn further on Corbyn’s character, and refuses to address what happens if he wins. But she is happy to elaborate on a Conservative politician: Boris Johnson. Eagle’s disdainful reaction to his elevation to foreign secretary was captured on camera. What was she thinking? “You can fill in the space. I felt had to restrain myself from saying something I might have regretted.” Would she say it now? “Noooo,” she says with a chuckle, before adding seriously, “it makes us a laughing stock in the world.” There is no such reaction to May, who she describes as a “driven and focused” politician, whose promotion to No 10 was something Eagle predicted when she stood in at PMQs. She is convinced that the new Tory leader is considering an early election. “She’s got a majority of 12 and she’s sacked more people than that in her reshuffle,” says Eagle, hitching her thumb at the same picture of the prime minister. “I would if I was her.” What then for Labour? Eagle says she will never predict a defeat for her party. But she doesn’t sound optimistic. Abuse, electoral gloom and ambition thwarted: it doesn’t seem, all in all, to be the easiest time to be Angela Eagle. Still, there are upsides. “I have people send me free glasses of wine,” she says, brightly. Excuse me? A wry smile takes over her face. “It has happened several times, if I manage to be eating somewhere and someone spots me. I’ve been sent flowers, been stopped in the street, praised for making a stand. “It is not news when people are nice to politicians. But there have been people being nice to me, I’d like to emphasise that.” At the moment, you could hardly blame her for enjoying it. 