It began when William Peter Blatty read about a case of possession in the paper. He wrote a novel that director William Friedkin couldn’t put down. Friedkin could not explain the things that he experienced while researching the paranormal for his adaptation of The Exorcist (oh, and the set was supposedly cursed), and upon seeing it for the first time, audiences screamed, fainted and fled from the theater. The film’s tragic hero, Father Karras (Jason Miller), enlists Max von Sydow’s Father Merrin to exorcise a troubled girl who has done unspeakable things with a crucifix. In doing so, these priests face down gallons of pea soup and incomprehensible darkness. Horror director Tobe Hooper’s and Steven Spielberg’s film deals with dread in American idyllic suburbia, where an unlucky family learns the hard way that their perfect home is built on a cemetery. This isn’t a Pet Sematary deal, though – here be restless ghosts and the beast himself who holds their daughter Carol Anne captive. The paranormal investigators trying to make sense of the house’s strange phenomena are out of their depth, but tiny clairvoyant and “house cleaner” Tangina Barrons (Zelda Rubinstein) knows what to do. All she needs to save Carol Anne are tennis balls, red ribbon, handkerchiefs, rope, a bathtub and some help from Carol Anne’s mom. What happened to exorcists in the late 80s and 90s? The Poltergeist and Exorcist franchises continued, alongside possession comedies: Ghostbusters, Repossession, Beetlejuice. But Buffy’s first season premiered the same year as Peter Jackson’s The Frighteners and presaged supernatural superheroes such as Blade as well as signaling the triumphant return of the real deal in 2005 with Constantine and The Exorcism of Emily Rose. Buffy’s expertise was slaying, but when your school sits on top of a Hellmouth, all kinds of spirit-destroying happens, including an exorcism where Buffy rids Sunnydale High of a former student’s ghost who keeps reenacting the bloody end of his ill-fated affair with his teacher by possessing current students, teachers and even the janitor. Some people may try to tell you that Francis Lawrence’s Constantine is not a faithful Hellblazer adaptation, but it doesn’t matter: it’s a great, underrated film where Keanu Reeves plays a lonely occult detective with the ability to see a world behind the world, and the half-demons and half-angels that populate it. God and Lucifer exist, but they’ve made a wager for the souls of mankind. Constantine’s own soul is in play, and he deports demons back to hell in an attempt to avoid his own seemingly inevitable journey there. His help includes a man who deals in magical objects like a supernatural Q, a witch doctor who owns a nightclub, an alcoholic priest, a psychic cop, Shia LaBeouf, and a cat.  This is James Wan’s first film based on Ed and Lorraine Warren, a real-life ghost-hunting power couple who investigated countless hauntings together, including Amityville, Enfield and a spooky doll. This particular case concerns the ghost of an accused witch who murdered her child at a farmhouse in Rhode Island. Lorraine (Vera Farmiga) is a powerful clairvoyant still exhausted from her last exorcism, and Ed (Patrick Wilson) is the only non-ordained demonologist recognized by the Catholic church. They confirm the presence of a dark entity, but the church delays their exorcism approval, and the Warrens are on their own. Talk about red tape. Scott Derrickson’s Deliver Us From Evil is the most nightmarish buddy cop movie ever made, where evil works like a contagion in New York City and demons love to quote The Doors. Édgar Ramírez plays Mendoza, a Jesuit priest and exorcism “specialist” who was nearly defrocked once for sex, drugs and, judging from his leather jacket, rock’n’roll. Police officer Ralph Sarchie (Eric Bana) becomes Mendoza’s reluctant partner when he begins to investigate bizarre interconnected crimes that he can’t explain. When a possessed suspect abducts Sarchie’s wife and child, Mendoza joins Sarchie and the afflicted man in an interrogation room for an impromptu-but-successful exorcism that they perform together.  Five episodes in, the show has only just revealed it’s more than just an atmospheric sequel to Friedkin’s film, but it’s been faithful to the formula of two priests teaming up since the pilot: one a guilt-ridden old hand at exorcism, the other an inexperienced young man grappling with his faith, both called upon to help a possessed woman when no one else can. So far we’ve seen a sexual harasser eviscerated on the train, spontaneous combustion, a series of murders in preparation for a demon-summoning ritual, and an old gang of exorcising nuns. The city of Chicago itself seems possessed as it suffers a surge in violence, supporting one character’s belief that “evil is a moveable feast”. Yum. 