 At a small gathering at its Cupertino headquarters, Apple unveiled new products, including an upgraded 4in iPhone called the iPhone SE, and a new, smaller, iPad Pro to replace the iPad Air 2. It also officially released its iOS 9.3 software, launched “CareKit” for patients to use their iPhones in healthcare, and got excited about nylon watch bands. The iPhone SE is basically an iPhone 5S body with the guts of an iPhone 6S inside. It’s launching at $399/£359 for a 16GB model, but you shouldn’t buy the 16GB model. The 64GB model is $499/£439. It’ll be available for order from March 24, and available from March 31. Apple has introduced a “smaller iPad Pro”, with a 9.7in display. What makes this different from a new iPad Air, you ask? Well, Apple gives us a lot of answer: It has a “pro display”, which tries to match the colour temperature of the surrounding environment. It has “pro audio”, with four speakers, like the larger iPad Pro. It has “pro performance”, running the same A9X as the larger iPad Pro. It supports “pro accessories”, such as the iPad Pro keyboard and the Apple Pencil. It has the “most advanced iPad camera yet” (even better than larger iPad Pro’s, but with the trade-off of an iPhone 6-style camera nubbin). Oh, and it also has a pro price: $599 for the 32GB version, an extra $200 on top of the iPad Air 2, which has had $100 cut from its price. It’s shipping on the 31st of March. Larger models are available at 128GB for $749 and 256GB for $899. iOS 9.3 launches today. It includes Night Shift, which makes the screen warmer in colour as the night draws in. It also lets you lock the Notes app with TouchID, and gives you a few new ways of viewing health data. A price cut for the Apple Watch, a year after launch, which will now retail for $299 down from $349. People like changing their watch bands, apparently, so Tim Cook says that “today we’re introducing some new colours and a new band made from all new materials”. It’s woven nylon. A small tvOS update launching today: you can put your apps in folders, and finally access iCloud Photo Library on your Apple TV. CEO Tim Cook began by discussing the company’s forthcoming legal conflict with the FBI. “We build the iPhone for you, our customers, and we know that it is a deeply personal device. For many of us, the iPhone is an extension of ourselves. “We need to decide as a nation how much power the Government should have over our data and over our privacy,” said Cook. “We did not expect to be in this position at odds with our own government but we believe strongly that we have a responsibility to help you protect your data and to help you protect your privacy.” “We will not shrink from this responsibility.” CareKit is the follow-up to ResearchKit, which allows medical researchers to build big data research programmes around iOS. This time, doctors and surgeons can build apps which allow patients to manage their own care or recovery. The framework is launching with an app aimed at Parkinson’s patients, and another app which will help people recover from surgery. This will be the last event in Apple’s old HQ! Next year, they’ll be in their Halo campus, down the road in Cupertino. 