By chance, the Bank of England’s latest decision on interest rates fell on the eighth anniversary of the collapse of the US investment bank Lehman Brothers, one of the seismic economic events of the past 100 years. On that day, official borrowing costs in the UK stood at 5%. In the months that followed the Bank of England’s monetary policy committee cut them aggressively until in early 2009 they hit 0.5%. Nobody – not even the ultra-pessimists – imagined back then that in September 2016 the Bank would be considering cutting interest rates, from 0.25% to 0.1%. But the assumption that ultra-low interest rates were a passing phase proved to be entirely false. The world economy has never truly recovered from the shock administered by the near-death of the banking system in late 2008, symbolised by the Lehman Brother’s bankruptcy. Growth has remained weak, real incomes have been squeezed, popular anger at ruling elites has grown. Donald Trump’s run at the US presidency and the Brexit vote can both be traced back to those tumultuous days eight years ago. The possible implications of a British exit from the European Union explain why the Bank could well cut interest rates again before Christmas. As expected, the MPC kept rates unchanged at 0.25% at its latest meeting but sent out a strong signal to the markets that it was in the mood for further easing. That’s despite the fact that the economy has performed rather better since the referendum than the Bank envisaged when it announced its big package of stimulus measures in early August. Back then, the MPC envisaged that the economy would grind to a virtual standstill in the third quarter. Now Threadneedle Street’s in-house economists think the initial stab at estimating activity from the Office for National Statistics will show growth of 0.2%, rising to 0.3% when more data comes in. So why is another rate cut in the offing? Firstly, the Bank thinks some of the deleterious effects of Brexit – on investment in particular – will take time to show up. Secondly, it wants to keep downward pressure on the pound to boost exports. And finally, the prospect of still cheaper money has boosted financial markets and it fears a backlash if it fails to deliver.  That doesn’t mean rates at 0.1% are a dead cert. But it will take even better economic news over the coming weeks to prevent them from happening. 