Potential successor to Nigel Farage clarifies call to ban Muslim face veils and rejects claim that she is ‘chasing the bigot vote’ Press Association 
 A Ukip leadership contender who says veils should not be worn in public places has claimed her party remains “more relevant than it’s ever been” following Britain’s vote to leave the EU.  Lisa Duffy, one of five candidates aiming to succeed Nigel Farage as Ukip’s leader, said the EU referendum result meant the party was now entering its “phase two”. She told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “Our party is more relevant than it’s ever been.  “We have to keep the pressure on the government to make sure the right Brexit deal is actually delivered and I think what we have to show the electorate now is we have got a fantastic fully costed manifesto and our job now is to build on those policies, get more councillors elected and get our party fit for Westminster.”  Duffy, who is backed by high-profile former Ukip spokeswoman Suzanne Evans, told Today that she had not called for an outright ban on the Muslim face veil.  “I haven’t said ‘ban’,” she said. “The policy I’m using is show your face in a public place, areas of high security.” She added: “It’s not a religious right. Modest dressing is what they are asked to do within their religion so for me I’m not asking them to do anything that is against their religion.”  The contest to replace Farage is missing some of the party’s most recognisable names, including Evans and the MEP Steven Wolfe, prompting some to question the seriousness of the election.  Duffy rejected the idea that it was not a serious contest, adding: “The five candidates that are in the race, four of us are turning up at the hustings on a religious basis, every single night we are here and we are meeting our members.” She also said the campaign was not descending into mudslinging as different factions battled for power, despite a rival accusing her of “chasing the bigot vote” after her veil announcement.  “But it isn’t,” said Duffy. “It isn’t. The next leader has to be a strong leader. They have to be a team builder but they have to understand our party inside and out and not lose the uniqueness that is Ukip.” Duffy also rejected the accusation that without Farage the party was unable to agree on anything.  She said the five leadership candidates were “all talking very, very similarly”. 