 It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple's App Store. As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app. Want more apps? Browse previous Best iPhone and iPad apps roundups on The Guardian. And if you're looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weekly Best Android Apps roundups. Star Wars Scene Maker (Free + IAP)This is a real treat for Star Wars fans: an iPad app for dreaming up your own scenes within the movie universe, using 3D models of characters and settings, then cutting in dialogue from the Star Wars films or your own recordings. And then sharing the results. Think of the fan-fiction possibilities... And while it'll take quite a lot of experimenting to get the most out of it, there'll be plenty of fans willing to try.iPad Parallels Access (Free + IAP)Parallels is already well known to people using remote-access software on other devices – for example to get to their work computer from home. Already available on iPad, it's now on iPhone too, enabling you to access files and applications on your Windows and Mac computers from your smartphone.iPhone (already on iPad) Slingshot (Free)Only available in the US for now, this is Facebook's latest standalone app: a Snapchat-style way to quickly share photos and video clips, with the twist that you can't see what someone has sent to you until you 'sling' something back. Useful? Fun? It's very early days, so hard to tell if it'll be a hit or a Poke-style flop.iPhone Juices (£2.99)Author Natalie Savona's Big Book of Juices has been a popular resource for all things juicy as a book. Now it's an app too, promising more than 400 recipes for juices and smoothies, with a neat system for fast access to your favourites, and a shopping list feature to ensure you have all the ingredients to hand.iPhone / iPad Path Talk (Free + IAP)Path made its name as a social networking app, but now it has launched a dedicated messaging spin-off. It matches other messaging apps with its mix of one-to-one and group messaging, digital stickers and voice messages. Extra features: messages are deleted from Path's servers 24 hours after being sent, and the app makes it easy to ping music, maps and your location to friends.iPhone StreetHub (Free)An interesting shopping app for Londoners, this: it spotlights fashion and home products in independent shops around the capital, with the option to buy them from your iPhone to collect in-store, or have them delivered. More than 200 shops are covered by the app, which means you'll want to check it regularly for new additions.iPhone / iPad Adobe Photoshop Mix (Free)It's a busy week for Adobe, with several new iOS apps. This is a photo-editing app for tweaking your shots, but also for cutting out elements and pasting them into other shots – all with controls designed for the touchscreen. If you're a pro user of Adobe's Photoshop and Lightroom, it works well with those too.iPad Adobe Sketch (Free + IAP)Second up from Adobe, there's this sketching app to "capture your ideas" – playing a similar role to popular iPad app Paper in that regard. It ties in to Adobe's existing Behance service for sharing creative work: you can post to that from within Sketch, and get feedback from people in the app.iPad Sicher (Free)More messaging, this time from developer Shape, which made the popular IM+ app among others. This is a "Made in Germany" messaging app promising end-to-end encryption of your messages and sent files, with group chats, and the option to set messages to self-destruct.iPhone Wayne Rooney's Soccer Training (£2.99 + IAP)With England having crashed out of the World Cup already, there may not be too many takers for Wayne Rooney's official training app. Still, if you're looking to polish your footballing skills, it may be worth a look: video tutorials and a training regime for dribbling, passing, finishing and getting on a plane nice and early. Okay, not that last one.iPhone PlunderNauts (Free + IAP)Pirates in space is a theme that's been tapped by numerous games and TV shows in the past, with PlunderNauts an impressive update of the idea. Your job is to loot galactic booty (so to speak) in your spaceship, crafting weapons and upgrades to keep your fleet in shape, and plotting your space-battle strategy.iPhone / iPad Godfire (£4.99 + IAP)Godfire is a visually-spiffing action adventure inspired by console series God of War: expect plenty of monsters, boss battles and mythical storytelling. The animation and scenery looks impressive, although you may need a bit of practice to get used to the controls.iPhone / iPad Stick Soccer (Free + IAP)This is the work of Stick Sports, following its previous Stick Cricket and Stick Tennis games. Here, you're flicking a ball to score goals – one of a growing number of "flick-to-kick" mobile games. One neat feature: you choose your country then see your points count towards its total in a global contest.iPhone / iPad LEGO Marvel Super Heroes: Universe in Peril (£2.99 + IAP)There are plenty of fans of the various Lego games, with Marvel's Spider-Man, Wolverine, Iron Man and other super heroes the latest to get blocked up for an action-adventure. More than 90 characters, in all, with 45 missions to play through – themed packs provide access to the different heroes.iPhone / iPad Powerpuff Girls: Defenders of Townsville (£2.49)Earlier this month, Cartoon Network announced that it would be developing new episodes of its Powerpuff Girls cartoon – the first since 2005. But in advance of those, here's an official mobile game for Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup. It's a fun action-adventure as you explore its Townsville setting, unlock new abilities and battle big bosses.iPhone / iPad Mucho Party (£2.49)Microgames – think Wario Ware – have been a hit on other devices. Mucho Party is trying to do a similar thing for iOS, with 30 games designed for fast multiplayer fun. The idea: you take on a friend across the various games, although there are AI-controlled players when nobody else is with you. Colourful and silly, in the best sense of the word.iPhone / iPad Dungeon Gems (Free + IAP)The inspiration for this Gameloft game is clear: lucrative puzzle-RPG game Puzzle & Dragons. As in that game, you're fighting monsters by matching shapes – runes in this case. There are 220 heroes from which to marshal your party, and – as ever for this genre – in-app purchases to speed your development if desired.iPhone / iPad Hero Hunt (Free + IAP)Hero Hunt looks interesting: a "tactical collectible card game" where you collect and upgrade superheroes, then send them into three-on-three battles where you swipe at enemies to cast spells and launch attacks. There's a solo quest mode plus the option to battle other players and form clans.iPhone / iPad Transformers: Age of Extinction (Free + IAP)Another big movie brand gets a mobile game, this time from Japanese publisher Mobage. It's a "3D combat runner" starring the Autobots and Decepticons, as you switch between robot and vehicle while powering through the levels, unlocking new Transformers as you go.iPhone / iPad ColourColor (Free + IAP)Finally, something really intriguing: a colour-matching social game for iPhone. You play by taking a photo of something nearby, then challenging a friend to find something near them with as close a colour match as possible. It has the potential to be a Draw Something-style success, if enough people pick it up.iPhone Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section. 