Sole control of Britain’s rail infrastructure is to be taken out of the hands of the state-owned Network Rail and shared with private firms under government plans to be announced next week, it has been reported. The move, which would represent one of the biggest changes to the running of the British rail network in recent years, would see track maintenance undertaken by Virgin, Southern, ScotRail and other operators for the first time. The transport minister, Chris Grayling, reportedly believes the plan will incentivise the private operators, which rely on the tracks being in operation, to complete the repairs more quickly than Network Rail, thereby decreasing disruption. He also sees the move as a way of cutting fares. In 2007, as shadow transport secretary, he said: “We think, with hindsight, that the complete separation of track and train into separate businesses at the time of privatisation was not right for our railways. “The separation has helped push up the cost of running the railways – and hence fares – and has slowed decisions about capacity improvements. Too many people and organisations are now involved in getting things done – so nothing happens.” Grayling is due to announce the plans at a speech to the thinktank Policy Exchange on Tuesday according to the Daily Telegraph. Publicity material sent out by that organisation said Grayling’s plan would “put the passenger at its heart, ensuring that journeys are safe, quick, and provide value for money”. A Department for Transport spokesman declined to confirm or deny the report, saying only that Grayling was “going to be making a speech” that day. Control was handed to Network Rail in 2002 after a takeover of the private firm Railtrack, which had been forced into administration. The train services, however, are run by private companies. According to the Telegraph, Grayling is considering introducing a “vertical integration” that would hand more control to those private firms over what repairs are done on the lines on which they operate and when they take place. It was reported that the changes would come into effect as new franchises were awarded. On Friday, it was announced that rail fares are to increase by an average of 2.3% across all tickets from 2 January. The Campaign for Better Transport condemned the increase, saying some passengers were “finding themselves priced off the railways”. The campaign’s Lianna Etkind said: “The train operating companies and the government need to work closely together to provide fairer, simpler and cheaper fares making sure people are always sold the cheapest ticket available. “Between 1995 and 2016, passengers have seen average fares increase by 23.5% and much more needs to be done by train operators and the government to give them a truly affordable railway.” 