Ooh aah indeed. What an extraordinary Fright Night for Strictly. Judge Rinder as an insane moth doing the paso doble. Batastacia battling for her life. And Ed Balls as the mad scientist who cannot dance to save his life – and yet, miraculously, can somehow go like the clappers when he feels like it, moving in time and on time without stepping on his partner’s feet, unlike (this week) Danny Mac. Say what you like, the former Chancellor has guts. There were some bizarre music choices, though. Evanescence’s Bring Me Back to Life as a rumba? Meatloaf’s Bat Out of Hell as a jive? Pro dancers must have their jaws on the floor when they hear these choices. Their task is frequently impossible and I take my Oksana tribute butterfly wig off to them for the work they do. (As I understand it, the producers choose the music, not the pro dancers. Or there’s a nebulous consultation between the two. Either way, it does feel as if you can draw the short straw, music-wise, and through no fault of your own.)  Now, though, what matters is that the competition is really starting. Some of the dancers are flagging physically (who can blame them). But worse, the psychology of the thing is kicking in. Ore and Danny both lost their nerve a little this week. Oti, Danny’s partner, was right to take a risk with the “elastic band” manoeuvre, but unfortunately it didn’t pay off. That would have been a stunning dance if it had worked.  Ed Balls is undeniably the unassuming star of this series: a man who looks outwardly this week as if he had escaped from a Victorian asylum but who clearly has an inner core of steel (mentally if not physically). His morale seems to go from strength to strength: he really is a true politician, blundering on no matter who he’s up against. You’ve got to admire that. I suspect, though, that if anyone other than Daisy or Anastacia had been in the dance-off the backlash against Balls would have started. It’s coming soon. The blonde wig was truly scary. But it was the only terrifying thing about Darcey this weekend. It can feel as if she is forced to take the maternal role, and tones down her comments to buoy up contestants who might otherwise go postal over Craig’s barbs. I’d like to hear what she really thinks. She was generous and encouraging to both Anastacia and Daisy, which was perhaps a premonition. We will be monitoring who she’s kind to next week ... If you can’t sleep tonight, blame it on Bruno. It’s hard not to get flashbacks of him doing a Dracula on Darcey and enjoying it rather too much in Saturday’s opening number. Bruno’s script this year is hilarious, as are his frequent deviations from it. On Louise and Kevin: “You don’t see that at the Tate Modern, but you do see it on Strictly!” This was a dance that bore very little relevance to contemporary art, other than a random Lichtenstein backdrop. But bless him for playing along. Also this classic to Greg and Natalie: “Heathcliff and Cathy reunited on Wuthering Height!” (sic) Love Bruno. Although sometimes I think he should have his 8, 9 and 10 paddles surgically removed. 8 for Ed Balls? Come on, Bruno! Get ready for the 10s to start coming out next week. It’s time. I love Len’s attention to the heel turn. To Daisy: “I’ve never seen a girl put the heel turn in [a paso doble].” I thought he was going to start weeping. His reaction to Ed Balls was predictable but beautifully expressed: “Halloween is about the supernatural. It wasn’t super and it wasn’t all that natural ... Your best dance.” Dubbed “Craig Devil Horwood” for the whole Halloween special, the most Satanic judge was on fine form. I think he’s sharpening his pencil beneath that desk. No more Mr Nice Guy. (Hence Bruno upping his marks to combat Craig’s under-marking.) Classic Craig on Ed Balls: “That bottom was moving spasmodically. I’ve never seen anything so bizarre in my life.” He awarded a 4 to Bruno’s 8, giving an indication of where this might be going next week: highly polarised scoring in the run-up to Blackpool.  Laura upped her game impressively, but she is clearly in pain from her ankle injury and could barely get up the stairs to Claudia after her dance. Natalie Lowe must be stressed. Her decision to ignore the rumba brief and go for a crowd-pleasing dance kept them in the show, though. She’d be wise to continue playing to Greg’s strengths. Daisy surely has to get a stay of execution next week: she’s working hard and is turning out to be a rather adorable person. Ore and Danny need to calm down, work hard and get back on form. And Ed Balls ... well, he’s unstoppable. 