Ukip donor Arron Banks says British PM is unwise to reject Farage’s offer to act as conduit to Trump administration 
Rowena Mason and 
Anushka Asthana 
 Theresa May is unwise to shut Nigel Farage out of her relations with Donald Trump because he effectively has a “hotline to the White House”, one of the Ukip leader’s closest allies has said. Arron Banks, the Ukip and Brexit campaign donor, said the hour-long meeting between Trump and Farage on Saturday was serious rather than lighthearted and touched on serious issues from Brexit to Nato. Banks was one of five people in Farage’s entourage who was entertained by the president-elect at Trump Tower in Manhattan this weekend. The group had gone to have a cup of tea with Steve Bannon, Trump’s new chief strategist, when they got trapped in the building because of a demonstration against the president-elect outside. After a chance encounter with Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, they were ushered up to meet the president-elect and ended up touring his apartment as well as having photographs taken with him in a gold lift. Downing Street dismissed the idea that Farage could be a conduit to the White House when asked about the meeting on Monday. May’s spokeswoman talked about a warm phonecall between May and Trump on Thursday, adding: “The president-elect talked about enjoying the same close relationship that Reagan and Thatcher did. I don’t remember there being a third person in that relationship.” But Banks said May was “nuts” to reject the help offered by Farage, especially given his close relationship with Bannon, who ran the rightwing Breitbart news website before going to work for Trump. Farage’s former chief of staff, Raheem Kassam, also has links to Bannon as the editor of Breitbart in London. “Breitbart has consistently backed Ukip massively. Steve and Nigel speak and text almost daily, probably to that degree,” Banks said. Banks said Farage was particularly singled out by Trump for his first meeting because he was the “only foreign politician that supported him”, even going out to effectively spin for him during the television debates and rallies. According to those present, Trump did not know the names of many UK politicians but understood the issues around Brexit, including immigration. “We thought we were only going to get a few minutes but Trump wanted to download all about the campaign and Brexit, talking person to person with Nigel,” Banks said. “It was about an hour and we talked about all sorts, whether Theresa May was going to deliver Brexit. It was not a jokey meeting. They were really going through all the big issues. “Whatever No 10 say, Nigel has a hotline to Trump and some of his closest advisers.” There have been reports of a cabinet split in which some ministers urged May to use Farage’s links to Trump. However, the prime minister appears determined not to hand Farage any opportunity for a role in official relations between the UK and US, which could boost the outgoing leader’s relevance and profile. Banks has bankrolled Ukip for the last few years but is now “disengaging” from the party and plans to help fund about 200 candidates to challenge establishment candidates at the next election. The multimillionaire businessman told the Times that he will support the candidates who want to reform the Westminster system. He later clarified on Twitter that he would like to abolish the House of Lords, set two-term limits on MPs, and bring in age restrictions so being in parliament is not a career. “It’s a very simple agenda: to destroy the professional politician. I like the idea of clearing the place out, setting new rules, maybe reducing the number of MPs. Not a party from the left or right. Just to clear out the worst lot,” Banks said. Downing Street has sought to play down the idea that May was a long way down the list of foreign leaders that Trump called, suggesting there had been a mixup in time zones. Asked whether May felt snubbed in light of Farage’s reception in New York, the spokeswoman said: “The president-elect invited the prime minister to visit at the earliest opportunity when they spoke last week … This is about the relationship between the government of the UK and the president-elect and the office of the White House as it will be when inaugurated.” She said the government would continue to use “well-established channels”, and rejected claims that the UK ambassador to the US, Sir Kim Darroch, had failed to build ties with Trump’s team. “The prime minister has welcomed the work that the diplomatic team have been doing at the embassy in Washington, the engagement of our ambassador and his team with the teams of both candidates,” she said. “We’ve been able to use the links with the Trump team moving forward.” The spokeswoman suggested May would travel to the US at the earliest possible opportunity. Asked whether May was worried about Trump’s comments on Nato, the spokeswoman said the UK was a leading voice in pushing members to commit to the agreement to spend 2% of GDP on defence. “The prime minister and the government are clear on the importance of Nato, that it has formed the bedrock of collective security for many years, and we remain committed to that and committed to working with our European partners,” she said. She would not be pushed on the suggestion from the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, that there had been a “collective whinge-o-rama” in response to Trump’s election victory.  Johnson also said there was “a lot to be positive” about after Trump’s election. He said: “It’s only a few days since the election has taken place. I think we all need to wait and see what they come up with. But I think we should regard it as a moment for opportunity.” Johnson had previously called Trump “ill-informed” and said his comments on Islam showed “a quite stupefying ignorance that makes him frankly unfit to hold the office of president of the United States”. But arriving in Brussels on Monday morning, Johnson said the Republican’s victory reflected wider changes in public opinion to which politicians must respond. “This is a time, I think – as the prime minister is saying today – when there’s a big change going on in the world,” he said. “People who feel they haven’t been properly listened to and properly represented are starting to make their voices heard. It’s up to us, it’s up to everybody, to listen to them and to take things forward in a positive way. “Donald Trump, as I’ve said before, is a dealmaker and I think that could be a good thing for Britain, but it could also be a good thing for Europe and that I think is what we need to focus on today.”  