An election that pits unions against ministers begins on Monday: and the mood is so poisonous that even the rules of the contest are a source of friction 
Daniel Boffey Observer policy editor 
 On Monday in what aides say will be a “deeply personal” speech over which she has agonised for days, Angela Eagle will formally launch her bid to be leader of the Labour party, just as its very foundations appear to be crumbling.  Flanked by allies, she will explain her motives for seeking to unseat Jeremy Corbyn, only nine months after he was elected, and trigger a race whose very rules are deeply contested. It is for that reason that Monday’s fireworks – all the more glittering, perhaps, for the delay in them being launched – may prove to be just a sideshow to a more substantive political event the following day. In delivering 51 MPs in support of a leadership bid to the parliamentary Labour party chair, John Cryer, Eagle will trigger the start of the contest. Indeed she has many more names than 51, and the same is true of the former shadow welfare secretary, Owen Smith, who is likely to join the race at some point in the coming days. But it is on Tuesday, when a special meeting of the party’s governing body, the national executive committee (NEC), will be convened at Labour HQ, that the key questions over this campaign will be discussed and the fate of the Labour party as we know it shall be placed in the balance. It is set to be a day of high drama and much anger, but hopefully some clarity. At the top of the contentious agenda will be whether Jeremy Corbyn, as incumbent, needs to collect 51 MPs himself to appear on the ballot paper. The rules offer some doubt. “Where there is no vacancy, nominations may be sought by potential challengers each year prior to the annual session of party conference,” they say.  “In this case any nomination must be supported by 20% of the combined Commons members of the [parliamentary Labour party] and members of the [European parliamentary Labour party]. Nominations not attaining this threshold shall be null and void.” Corbyn’s office insists that it has legal advice suggesting that, as he is not a challenger, he need not collect those supporting MPs. It is understood that the Labour party has legal advice that concludes, on the basis of the 1988 precedent when Neil Kinnock was challenged by Tony Benn, that he will have to jump that hurdle. And for him it would be quite a hurdle. Corbyn only won 35 nominations for the leadership last year with the help of MPs who wanted to “widen the debate”, even though they did not share his political philosophy or have great faith in his talents. One of those, the former foreign secretary Margaret Beckett, concedes that she was a “moron” to lend her vote to the leftwinger. Many others agree. With in excess of 80% of the parliamentary party voting in favour of a motion of no confidence in the Labour leader two weeks ago, it is highly unlikely that he would reach a target of 51 supporters this time around. “And so it’s then a matter of see you in court,” said one senior Labour source. But the contentious issues set to be discussed by the 33 members of the NEC don’t stop there. Since the referendum, 129,726 people have joined the Labour party. The total now stands at 515,000. But the NEC needs to rule on whether the very latest members should have a vote in this contest. Some senior Labour figures suggest that there should be a cut-off point at which membership does not deliver a right to vote for leader. One such point might be the moment at which the parliamentary Labour party supported a motion of no confidence in Corbyn; that would ensure that “entryists” from other leftwing organisations, such as the Socialist Workers party, could not have a say, a senior MP said. And then there are “registered supporters”. When he was Labour leader, Ed Miliband changed the system under which he was elected to “one member, one vote” in response to claims that trade unions had too much say. But he also allowed the public to take part for a £3 fee.  Before the leadership election last September, 121,295 people took the opportunity to become registered supporters – and accusations of abuse ensued. Those who had campaigned against Labour in the general election just months earlier were now electing the party’s leader, it emerged.  “And there are a lot of us who don’t want that chaos to be repeated,” said one of the shadow ministers who resigned two weeks ago. There will be proposals for the window in which people can become registered supporters to be more narrow, to allow party officials an opportunity to catch those who don’t subscribe to Labour’s values.  And the fee could even be increased, to ensure that taking part in a Labour leadership election cannot be seen as a frivolous jaunt for those who wish the party ill. How the NEC will rule on all this is difficult to judge. The 33 members are said to be evenly balanced in their political views. It is notable that Jon Ashworth MP has not resigned as shadow minister without portfolio despite his misgivings about his own leader, and will therefore retain a vote.  Theoretically, Corbyn can also vote, although some figures in Labour believe he should not do so, given that he has a personal interest in the decisions. Whatever might happen, a contest is nevertheless on, and it is set to be bloody. The tone of its genesis on Saturday is surely illustrative of that. On Saturday morning the Labour party’s deputy leader announced that attempts to reach a compromise with the unions that have been propping Corbyn up had, “with regret and profound sadness”, come to an end.  “Since the talks began Jeremy has publicly declared his intention to continue as leader come what may,” Tom Watson explained.  “This means there is no realistic prospect of reaching a compromise that satisfies the majority of colleagues in the PLP … I have concluded there is little to be achieved by pursuing wider conversations with our union affiliates at this time.” A statement from Eagle followed announcing her intention to launch her bid, and accusing the Labour leader of failing in his foremost duty of leading “an organised and effective parliamentary Labour party that can both hold the government to account and demonstrate we are ready to form a government in the event of a general election”. A spokesman for Corbyn swiftly attacked Watson for “walking away” from the union talks and pointed out that it took just an hour following Watson’s decision for Eagle to make her statement.  Asked if he was suggesting a conspiracy was afoot, he responded: “I couldn’t possibly comment.” A spokesman for Watson accused the Corbyn spokesman of briefing against him. Two hours later Len McCluskey, the Unite general secretary – a Corbyn backer who had been involved in talks with Watson and the parliamentary party – made it clear what he thought. “I am dismayed at the statement issued by Tom Watson announcing his withdrawal from talks aimed at resolving the crisis in the Labour party,” said McCluskey. “Extraordinarily, I received no notice of this statement before it was issued … Tom Watson’s actions today can only look like an act of sabotage fraught with peril for the future of the Labour party. “I must clarify one point in Tom Watson’s statement – I made it absolutely clear from the outset of these discussions that Jeremy Corbyn’s resignation as the leader was not on the agenda. “Mr Watson knew that, and it is entirely wrong to suggest that any public statement by Jeremy represented any change in the situation. “This is a deeply disingenuous manoeuvre … Should there have to be a leadership election, I must warn that any attempts to keep Jeremy Corbyn, elected just 10 months ago with an enormous mandate, off the ballot paper by legal means risks a lasting division in the party.” The leader – Jeremy CorbynBorn in Chippenham, Wiltshire, Corbyn, 67, studied at University of North London but left before completing his course. He became involved in politics when he was elected as a councillor in Haringey in 1974, then MP for Islington North in 1983. Leader of the party since last September. His leftist credentials are manifold. Helped to establish the Stop the War coalition in 2001 and a member of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament for half a century. Loved by many grassroots members, Corbyn is less popular with his fellow MPs.  Although he received only 35 nominations from Labour MPs, he gained 59.5% of the membership vote, making his position impregnable. Acknowledged this last week when, despite mass shadow cabinet resignations, he said he meant to remain as leader “come what may”.  The contender – Angela EagleThe 55-year-old MP for Wallasey since the 1992 general election is the daughter of a printworker who studied PPE at Oxford. Minister for pensions and ageing society from June 2009 until May 2010 before becoming shadow leader of the Commons.  Appointed in September as both shadow first secretary of state and shadow secretary of state for business, innovation and skills, she resigned from Corbyn’s shadow cabinet last month.  Famously told by David Cameron to “calm down, dear”, remarks that triggered calls for an apology. Pro-Trident and supporter of the Iraq war, neither of which will endear her to the Labour left who comprise the lion’s share of the party membership. Married her long-term partner Maria Exall in 2008. The outsider – Owen SmithA former BBC radio producer, Smith, 46, has been MP for Pontypridd since 2010. Shadow secretary of state for Wales after Peter Hain stepped down in 2012, then shadow secretary of state for work and pensions in 2015, following Corbyn’s election as leader.  In January he hinted that he was interested in the top job, saying it would be an “incredible honour and privilege”. Expressed fears last week that Labour is about to split, adding: “I stand ready to do anything I can to save and serve the party.” The power broker – Tom WatsonDeputy leader of the Labour party since September 2015, the Glastonbury-loving video game-playing MP for West Bromwich East since 2001 is divisive and enjoys the limelight. His claims about a paedophile ring within Westminster prompted a police investigation into former home secretary Leon Brittan which came to nothing. Watson’s job has been to win over the unions, laying the groundwork for Corbyn to be replaced.  But on Saturday he was forced to declare that there was “no realistic prospect of reaching a compromise”. With all options exhausted, Eagle decided there was nothing left but to challenge Corbyn directly. The go-between – Iain McNicolLabour party general secretary since July 2011, McNicol is a karate black belt who plays the bagpipes. Started his political life in 1991 when he became president of the Dundee Institute of Technology Students Union. Joined Labour Students and became their national campaigns and membership officer before becoming a party organiser and agent in West London. After Labour’s 1997 victory, McNicol, 46, served as a political officer with the GMB Union moving through a number of roles before returning to Labour. Responsible for a staff of around 200, the general secretary is the party’s most senior employee, in charge of its campaign and media strategies and the running of its organisational, constitutional and policy committees.  The spin doctor – Seumas MilneThe party’s director of strategy and communications is currently on leave from the Guardian. Educated at Winchester College, Milne, 57, studied PPE at Oxford.  Worked on the Economist and served on the executive committee of the National Union of Journalists for 10 years. Seen as being on the far left of the party, his appointment dismayed Labour grandees.  