 Argentina, who defeated Britain 4-1 in the first round of this year's Davis Cup, are the strongest tennis nation yet to win the competition, although they have been edging ever closer in recent years, losing the final 3-2 against Russia two years ago. There is a strong feeling in the Argentine camp that their time may be about to come, particularly if they can see off Sweden in Buenos Aires this weekend. The Swedes are redoubtable opponents. They may be short of the star names of the past, but the Davis Cup almost invariably brings out the best in their players and since the World Group, restricted to the leading 16 nations, was introduced in 1981, they have won the trophy six times. In all they have been champions seven times, placing them fifth behind the US, Australia, France and Britain in overall victories since the Davis Cup, the men's leading team tournament, was inaugurated in 1900. Of those four leading countries, all have won what may be deemed the 'modern' Davis Cup, except Britain, whose last victory came in 1936 and who will learn next week whom they may face in September in order to try and stay in the elite world group. Argentina sprang a mild surprise with the selection of Jose Acasuso for the opening singles today, displacing his higher ranked team-mates such as Juan Monaco and Guillermo Canas, although it served to underline the current strength in depth of Argentine men's tennis with nine players in the world's top 100. "It was a hard decision. They are all playing well. Sometimes you take decisions based on things that are not sport-related," said the Argentine captain, Alberto Mancini, somewhat mysteriously. He had better be right. In 2006 Argentina beat Sweden 5-0 in the first round, when Acasuso defeated both Thomas Johansson and Jonas Bjorkman, but Sweden turned the tables last year with a 4-1 victory in the quarter-finals. However, on their home clay the South Americans have been an immensely dominant force in recent years, although much may depend on the enigmatic David Nalbandian, the former world No3 whose mood and form swings continue to remain unfathomable. In the opening rubber he takes on Johansson, the former Australian Open champion, in their first meeting on clay. The 33-year-old Swede has won two of the previous three matches, including a four-set victory in last year's quarter-final, although that was on an altogether faster court. No country has retained the trophy since Sweden, winners in 1997 and 98, although the US appear to have a good chance of reaching the last four when they take on France in North Carolina. The French lost Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, this year's Australian Open runner-up, with a right knee injury before the tie began, while yesterday Richard Gasquet, a Wimbledon semi-finalist last year, was forced out of the opening singles with hand blisters. Given their own strength in depth, France have had a series of disappointing performances over the last five years. This is the 15th meeting between these two great Davis Cup nations with the head-to-head standing at 7-7. The first time they met was 103 years ago on grass, the US winning 5-0, while the most recent meeting was in 2002, on the red clay of Roland Garros in Paris, with the French victorious. Andy Roddick opens up against Michael Llodra, brought in for Gasquet. "We know all their players well and we certainly hope to use this fast surface and the home crowd to our advantage," said the US Davis Cup captain Patrick McEnroe. Spain have Rafa Nadal, the world No2, back for their quarter-final against Germany in Bremen, while the Russian Davis Cup captain, Shamil Tarpischev, well known for his idiosyncratic selections, surpassed himself by including the chronically out-of-form Marat Safin in the opening singles, the former US and Australian Open champion having played only six matches this year, winning just one. 