The Missing (BBC1) | iPlayerGoliath (Amazon Prime) | Amazon.comDivorce (Sky Atlantic) | Sky.comNational Treasure (C4) | All 4 I had no idea how much I’d missed The Missing. It returned last week, like that sallow, dangerous friend you thought might be dead or had just given up and was living in Crewe, who suddenly arrives at your door clutching a bottle of tequila and a bag of tragedy. We last saw this around the Christmas of 2014: the maddened father Jimmy Nesbitt, and snowbound Moscow flats, after weeks of tension around a dirtily corrupt French village – Latrine-ta-Gueule if I recall correctly. Here we’re in Eckhausen, a (fictional) British army town near Hanover, though I’m assuming there’s little fictional about the greyness, the slush, the chilblained fingers, the wartime ruins. Nor the sense of menace: small-town Germany would appear to have just as many tawdry secrets, trivial and monstrous, as any département of northern France. From the off, it’s clear writers Harry and Jack Williams have given us another slice of quality bleak, yet different enough to stand proudly, almost haughtily, discrete from the first. In the original, a boy, Olly, went (shockingly) missing: but for a long time that was about it. Here they packed, into one small hour, more and disturbingly more turns and twists than we had any right to expect: I was left reeling a little. The missing of this tale is a girl, Alison, kidnapped for 11 years, who suddenly, in 2014, wanders back into the world; into a cheap smoky Christmas market leached of colour and littered with lumpy ice: you can practically smell that horrid too-pink ersatz wurst. What should have been the heartwarming end, as her parents get the news and all are reunited in hospital, is of course only the heartbreaking beginning. The one constant is Tchéky Karyo, as lovely French cop Julien Baptiste, now retired yet still haunted by the occasional failure. Olly was one: a young French kidnapped girl another, and what do you know, her story and Alison’s are linked, and so he must leave his delightful wife and farmhouse and haul his wearily conscientious bones first to Germany, later to a more than usually nasty part of Iraq, which is saying something. Timewise, this slips and slides as much as the original between past and present: fortunately we have not only Julien’s hair to chronologically guide us (from friendly shaggy mane to brutalist stubble) but also David Morrissey as Alison’s army father, who somehow between her return and today has suffered savage burns to body and neck. Morrissey is standout in his stoic heartbreak: but the casting team have pulled out the stops everywhere. Keeley Hawes as Alison’s mother; Ólafur Darri Ólafsson, last seen in the triumphant Trapped, as a bear of a kindly journalist; even – yay! – Roger Allam. He drinks too much and always has the rejoinder: ‘That’s not entirely accurate. I drink exactly the right amount for me’ If you haven’t seen it yet I won’t utterly spoil it, though if you haven’t seen it yet you are a bit silly, aren’t you? However, there’s one huge question thrown up in the last 30 seconds that will wholly trip the brain. Phenomenal. My, it’s turning into a most splendid year for television. Also with few faults to find, though with far lighter notes and set in a land where the sun can get through, was Goliath, the big new venture from David E Kelley, showrunner behind Ally McBeal, LA Law and the vastly dry and underrated Boston Legal. In essence, it’s a John Grisham thriller gone right. I know a couple of Grishams have filmed well, but that must have been accidental: after all, Hollywood even managed a 10th-way decent Da Vinci Code, inordinately more than the book ever deserved. In the sun-riddled environs of the San Fernando valley and Venice Beach, lawyer Billy Bob Thornton hides from the vitamin D in faintly grubby bars, all brown wood, brown memories and tatty fairylights; this is the California of tyre stores and nail parlours in much the same way as that woeful cheerless Christmas market is the reality of much of Lower Saxony. By common consent, he drinks too much (and always has the rejoinder: “That’s not entirely accurate. I drink exactly the right amount for me”). He is also, of course, a faded lawyer, bright as a pewter button just needing polishing, and persuaded here to go up against the Goliath of the firm he co-founded in pursuit of a wrongful death-at-sea claim. He doesn’t yet know, but we do, or at least can take a punt at suspecting, that it’ll be, oh, so much more conspiratorial than that. This is very moreish, not least because Billy Bob is actually channelling Philip Marlowe – same shiny/dirty US state, about 80 years later. “Listen lady, I’m nervous already, and you’re a yapper,” is the kind of thing he will say, not unkindly, but with equally little regard for finesse. “When in doubt, have a man come through the door with a gun in his hand,” wrote Chandler: hasn’t happened so far, but I’ll bet the farm. This is sun-spangled yet with clever darknesses; just as the world should be. Also in America, suddenly, was Sharon Horgan, continuing her very welcome bid for global domination – well, mightn’t you rather have her, and Amy Schumer, in charge, when you see the alternatives? – by writing a relishably toothsome part for Sarah Jessica Parker. In Divorce, SJP plays the woman her face was actually born to play – bone-beautiful but older and stripped of flighty makeup – and, here, mired in that fortysomething angst that only marriage can bring, and with which (at a conservative estimate) only about 90% of the globe might empathise, Bali to Benin. Bleak, and surprisingly unfilthy comedy, and I hope Horgan lets this mood linger rather than race towards the pant-wetting. “We can’t even watch TV any more because he just repeats the jokes rather than laughing” must resonate, any gender. The good news is that there will be another series of Victoria. All sing: Gloriana. Other good news: that there won’t be another National Treasure. Acting: beyond grand, captivating, and I’m sorry I was snitty a few weeks ago about Julie Walters. Robbie Coltrane cried not only tears but snot, and how does one manage to cry snot? Jack Thorne’s script, equally and truthfully wonderful. Tim McInnerney entranced as ever, and is the right age to be our next Olivier. But the direction: I am searching for a kind way to describe it. All the reds and greens and pointless lingering on non-moments. I have read that it was shot deliberately in this way. Always with windows in the background to highlight the fact that we are all voyeurs; we create the media monster we then want to shoot down. We might, sigh, have been trusted to know that. We’re not bairns. 