Action under way to find out who passed on to media cabinet secretary’s letter to senior civil servants, says No 10  
Anushka Asthana and 
Rajeev Syal 
 Downing Street has ordered an investigation into how a memo sent to senior civil servants to warn about the consequences of leaking information was passed on to journalists within days. Theresa May’s official spokeswoman said that action was under way to find out who had sent the letter, written by the cabinet secretary, Sir Jeremy Heywood, warning officials that they faced the sack if they leaked information, to a Sunday newspaper.  Setting out an investigation into a leak about the government’s policy on leaks, she said: “We take this issue extremely seriously and that has been clear with the action that has been set out and will be taken in follow-up. “The civil service code sets out very clearly the role of civil servants and how they are expected to behave with regard to official information.” The controversy has also led to an angry response from those representing senior civil servants, who said it was more common for leaks to emanate from political figures such as ministers. But May’s spokeswoman would not comment on whether they would also face the sack for leaks. Dave Penman, the general secretary of the FDA, the union representing the most senior civil servants, said: “Ask any journalist worth their salt and they’ll tell you that the vast majority of leaks emanate from politicians. Indications have been given that the prime minister will issue a parallel and similarly robust statement outlining that any politician found to have leaked will face a similar sanction. This would be both welcome and appropriate. “Civil servants are being threatened with the loss of their livelihood if they are caught leaking. A similar sanction should apply to politicians, not simply the loss of the trappings of ministerial office.” Heywood’s warning came after May ordered urgent action to prevent ministers and government officials from revealing information about the Brexit process.  His letter underlined deep frustration in Downing Street about how repeated leaks are undermining efforts to maintain its “no running commentary” stance on negotiations. In a letter to permanent secretaries, Heywood said it was time to clamp down on a “spate of corrosive leaks”. He said there was a need for a cultural change, as he set out plans to review areas vulnerable to leaks and to place security teams in charge of intensive inquiries into who was passing information on. “Anyone found to have leaked sensitive information will be dismissed, even where there is no compromise of national security,” he said. Heywood also wrote: “The prime minister has directed that we urgently tighten security processes and improve our response to leaks. She has instructed that we begin this work immediately and expects to see rapid and visible improvement. “Ministers, permanent secretaries and senior officials set the tone in an organisation and no amount of process will make up for an environment where leaks are accepted. If leaders think they are the necessary cost of open ways of working they are mistaken.” Heywood also revealed that he had strengthened control for “sensitive cabinet committee papers” that were used by senior members of May’s team to discuss Brexit plans so far. In October, the Guardian revealed that one of the papers Heywood referred to had warned cabinet ministers of a 4.5% drop in GDP by 2030 if Britain withdrew from the customs union.  