 As if defending the Paris indoor title was not enough to worry about, Tim Henman knows that every competitive ball he hits in the next few days could have a bearing on whether he makes the line-up for the prestigious Masters Cup in Houston.  Henman can secure a place in the season finale's eight-man field by winning two matches in Paris, thereby making the quarter-finals. It sounds simpler than it may turn out to be, given the pressure of the circumstances, so it is little wonder that he is clinging to a familiar plan.  "My intention is to take it a match at a time. I know it's a cliché but that's the way I perform best," Henman said. "I have to concentrate on my own game. It's always a bit frantic at this time of the year with so much on the line. It's difficult trying not to get caught up in it all."  Things will get a good deal more complicated, and therefore more nerve-racking if Henman loses his opening match in Paris against either Mariano Zabaleta (who replaces an injured Vince Spadea) or Paradorn Srichaphan, for then he will be forced to wait out the week and hope that neither Andre Agassi nor David Nalbandian overtakes him in the race to qualify. All three play in Paris.  Henman was helped a little by both the others being beaten in finals yesterday and therefore failing to make ground on him. Agassi lost 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 to Thomas Johansson in the Stockholm Open and David Nalbandian was beaten 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 1-6, 6-2 by Jiri Novak in Basle, results which mean that, even if Henman does not win a match, only Agassi making the semi-finals or Nalbandian winning the title would rob him of a qualifying place.  To add to the good news for Henman, Nalbandian was hampered by a knee injury against Novak and may not be at full fitness this week.  "Obviously it would have been nice to have already qualified for Houston but that's not the case and I need to focus my attention on playing as well as possible," said Henman.  "There are so many good players in the draw that, if you perform slightly below your best, there's a good chance you'll be punished."  Under the circumstances missing out on a place in Houston would be a very harsh punishment indeed. 