More than 1,000 jobs are to be lost with the closure of 120 Austin Reed outlets after administrators failed to find a buyer for the majority of the 116-year-old tailoring company’s stores. Edinburgh Woollen Mill owner Philip Day has bought the Austin Reed and Country Casuals brands and just five concessions in Boundary Mills discounter outlets, saving 28 jobs. Administrators AlixPartners said no offers had been received for the rest of the business despite a five-week sales process and the rest of Austin Reed’s stores would close by the end of June. Joint administrator Peter Saville from AlixPartners said: “We have explored all options to sell the business since our appointment and continued to trade the business with the support of the secured creditors in what is clearly an extremely challenging retail environment.  “Despite a significant number of interested parties coming forward during this period it became clear as the process progressed that a viable solution which kept the business whole was not forthcoming. As a result we have made the difficult decision to cease trading the business and commence a wind-down of the estate.” Austin Reed Group has 100 standalone stores and 50 concessions throughout the UK and Ireland and employed 1,184 staff when it went into administration in April. It is understood that AlixPartners have secured the sale of the lease on the group’s flagship Regent Street store to its landlord Hermes Real Estate Investment Management. The administrator has hired property consultant GCW to help sell off the rest of the portfolio, which is expected to be broken up and sold to a wide range of retail groups in small tranches. Some stores are likely to go to other bidders for the business who dropped out of the sale process, including Sports Direct boss Mike Ashley. The brand, whose customers included Winston Churchill and Elizabeth Taylor in its glory days, has struggled in recent years and in 2015, used a company voluntary agreement to close 31 unprofitable stores. It also moved out of its vast London flagship store at 113 Regent street in 2011, exchanging it for smaller premises over the road. Neil Saunders, of retail analysts Conlumino, said that the perception of Austin Reed’s quality had dropped as it cut the cost of suit manufacture while keeping prices steady. “Customers noticed and defected – some to more premium brands like Gieves & Hawkes, some younger customers to more innovative, contemporary brands like Suit Supply.” Richard Hyman, an independent retail consultant, agreed: “Austin Reed has faced growing competition from Marks & Spencer’s menswear, which has looked much better in the last 18 months, Moss Bros, which has been turned around, and the likes of TM Lewin, Ted Baker and Reiss. The competition has become much more fierce and Austin Reed hasn’t really moved itself on or been able to update its image or its product offering.” He said the company had partly been hindered by a lack of investment. Alteri Investors, which invests in troubled retail companies, recently took control of Austin Reed, whose customers include the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde. Alteri bought the retailer’s debt and equity from Darius Capital, a group controlled by the property tycoon Guy Naggar, who was previously involved in the collapsed investment company Dawnay Day. Dawnay Day, which once owned the Chez Gérard restaurant chain, bought Austin Reed, then listed on the London Stock Exchange for £49m, in 2006. The collapse of Austin Reed comes as administrators try to secure a future for BHS. A number of bidders, including Day and Ashley, have also pulled out of buying that business raising fears that it may also collapse if a deal cannot be secured.  The last remaining bidder for the whole BHS group is understood to be a Portuguese-backed consortium led by Greg Tufnell, the former managing director of Mothercare and Burton. 