 The youngsters have no respect for age. Last year it was the 20-year-old Marat Safin of Russia who crushed Pete Sampras in the final of the US Open. Yesterday it was the Australian tyro Lleyton Hewitt, also 20, who ran the legs off the great man, who has not won a title since Wimbledon last year and may never win a major one again.   As with Safin, this was Hewitt's first grand slam title and after he won the first set, when both players began edgily, it was never remotely in doubt. Sampras, 30 and the holder of a record 13 grand slams, had believed he could defy the ravages of time but it was not to be be. In a week Hewitt had transformed himself from notorious to victorious, becoming the youngest winner of the title since the 19-year-old Sampras in 1990.   The Australian had caused a storm on the first weekend for his alleged racist remarks during his second-round match against James Blake of the US. Throughout his short career he has flirted with controversy, but there was rarely much doubt that he would beome one of the world's leading players. Some believed he lacked any truly big weapons but he is such a competitive animal, moving with electric speed and counter-attacking with total venom, that he has overcome his comparative lack of height and huge shots.   A cross-court backhand pass was the match-winning shot in a 7-6, 6-1, 6-1 victory taking six minutes under two hours. Hewitt had lost in straight sets at the semi-final stage against Sampras here last year and vowed he had learned his lesson. Too right, mate. He could only have dreamed his first slam victory would have been so easy, one of the most comprehensive in a US Open final.   It is impossible not to feel sorry for Sampras, the severity of the defeat stunning the New York crowd who had entered the Arthur Ashe stadium convinced their man would win. How wrong they were, although after a wretched year for Sampras, which included the loss of his Wimbledon crown, it was hardly surprising. "The kid is so quick it's unbelievable," he said. "I wish I had his legs."   The first set always seemed likely to be crucial. Hewitt had been able to freewheel through his semi-final against Russia's Yevgeny Kafelnikov on Saturday and although Safin had not troubled Sampras unduly, the American had displayed signs of fatigue at the end of that semi-final.   Sampras had played huge fourth-round and quarter- final matches against Australia's Pat Rafter and his fellow American Andre Agassi respectively, which were bound to take their toll both physically and emotionally. So there were clear worries for the Sampras camp when he dropped his opening serve.   Prior to that he had gone 87 games without dropping his serve, last losing it in the second round against Brazil's Andre Sa. "It's a service that's unsurpassed in tennis history," said John McEnroe.  "And he's also got the guts to go big on his second serve."   But suddenly that counted for nothing. Sampras was particularly annoyed about one shot which he believed to be out. "Why didn't you over-rule?" he testily asked the American umpire Norm Chryst.  Hewitt could barely believe his good fortune, but immediately his own racket arm tightened and he lost his serve to love, including two double faults.   A swirling wind was not helping but Hewitt steadied the quicker after his horrible service game. Sampras, like Serena Williams the night before, was simply groping for too much and frequently hitting the ball either wide or beyond the baseline.   Although Hewitt plays a similar game to Agassi, counter-attack, the Australian gets the ball back many more times, putting tremendous pressure on his opponent. Sampras likes short points, and there were not very many. His serve was nowhere near as sharp as against Rafter or Agassi and the backhand, so striking in previous matches, was back to what it had been before the US Open: poor to very poor.   After the two early breaks the first set went with serve until the tie-break. A brilliant service return, a forehand error by Sampras and a Hewitt ace saw the Adelaide-born player jump into a 3-0 lead.  Sampras's eyes were on the ground now, and the shadows that had crept over the court also appeared to be darkening the American's face. His wife, Bridgette Wilson, bit her nails; Sampras bit his lip.   A double fault by Hewitt at 3-2 gave Sampras a glimmer of hope but a brilliant backhand down the line restored Hewitt's mini-break before further errors by Sampras, both on backhand and forehand, saw the No4 seed take the first set. Sampras slumped in his chair and called the umpire pathetic, his mind still dwelling on the first game when he felt badly done by. Hewitt towelled down, plucked at the strings of his racket and tried not to think too much of his first major title.   By now the Australian was beginning to fly. He held his serve at the beginning of the second set and was within a whisker of taking a 2-0 lead. Sampras was visibly disintegrating, appearing leaden- footed and slow as he had against Safin last year. Hewitt ran away with the second set in only 34 minutes, twice breaking the Sampras serve which from round two had appeared impregnable. The difference on this occasion was that the ball kept coming back... and back and back.   Sampras took only three points off the Hewitt serve in the second set. There was still plenty of light in the New York skies, but Sampras was fading fast. When he dropped his serve at the beginning of the third set it was all but over. For the second year in succession youth had triumphed. 