Talking to Colleen Ballinger about her new Miranda Sings show can go a little Inception if you’re not careful. It’s a bit bewildering, a bit meta. For here is a woman, made famous by singing and dancing badly on YouTube, talking about her new Netflix comedy, in which she lampoons women who try to get famous by singing and dancing badly on YouTube. But while Miranda Sings is a piss-take of the sorts of women who overshare, dress up and chat for hours to strangers on YouTube, Ballinger’s personal YouTube channel is full of videos of her doing just that – and not in character. Not to mention the fact that I am speaking to Ballinger just days after she and her husband Joshua David Evans announced on their YouTube channels that they are to divorce. Yet I am told I must not ask about it – the thing announced to her 4.5 million subscribers. The rabbit hole just got a little deeper. Miranda Sings, for the uninitiated, started life as a YouTube show about a talentless, clownish woman singing hit songs and reading out comments from an army of real online “haters”, apparently unaware that she was a pantomime fool. Haters Back Off, available now on Netflix, is a look “behind Miranda’s camera” – at the surreal home-life of this talentless ingenue as she plots world fame with her creepy uncle, bullies her wet flannel of a mother and tries to sell selfies at school. The setting is one of those timeless, regionless, suburban glimpses of America that has been the bedrock of so much modern comedy. Watching Miranda speed-eating an ice-cream on her front lawn, dressed in a beige cagoule, it’s hard not to be reminded of Napoleon Dynamite. And watching her family sit around the breakfast table to microwaved muffins and seething arguments, it’s hard not to think of Roseanne. Why did she want to explore the off-set life of her YouTube star? “I’ve always wanted to show that she’s a real person, with real feelings, that she’s vulnerable,” says Ballinger, speaking over the phone from her home in LA. “It wouldn’t make sense to have Miranda on a perfect set, in a beautiful home. The character is so wacky and extreme for the world to be wacky and extreme too. We had to pull everything back to make it as real as possible.” As she says this, I think of the show’s aquarium scene, where dead fish are sellotaped to the outside of their tanks for a TV advert. It’s funny, but undeniably wacky. “Everything was based on my life and the way I grew up,” says Ballinger. “Some of the bits I’m most proud of in Haters Back Off actually happened.” Oh really. Like what? “Oh god. You don’t want to know,” she laughs. Except I do. So I ask again. “At least half of it actually happened to me,” she answers diplomatically. “I’ll let you try to figure out which half.” Her self-proclaimed willingness to divulge everything, I think, seems to fall short during interviews. Some of the funniest moments in Haters Back Off are when the clownish antics twin up with a brilliant piece of dialogue. Like when the hysterical Miranda, after receiving her first death threat, screams “I’m panic-eating wieners!” while flying through her house with a mouthful of Vienna sausage. From her enormous red mouth to the jerky body language, she is every inch a modern clown. “I take that as a compliment,” laughs Ballinger. “Clowns are meant to make people smile. That’s my goal.” But could Miranda have become successful, got her own Netflix show, attracted millions of online viewers if Ballinger had, herself, actually been ugly? Can weird-looking women make it in comedy? There is, after all, no Curb Your Enthusiasm equivalent starring a bald woman and her fat female friend. “If I looked a little different, I sure hope I could find the same success,” says Ballinger. “It would be a very sad world to live in if that weren’t true.” Here we slip down the rabbit hole again, as Ballinger explains that her character became popular on YouTube precisely because she was gross and untalented. But, she argues, nobody knew what Ballinger actually looked like. And yet, to me, it often felt like watching the uglying up of a clearly good-looking woman for laughs. “It wasn’t hard for me looking disgusting,” she says. “One of the requirements for directors was that they’d be happy to make me look gross. And my brother, who is my co-producer and co-writer, would sometimes run on set to warn me I looked too pretty.” Perhaps it is difficult to separate Miranda from Ballinger precisely because she created the character so long ago, based on the kinds of criticism any woman might get online about their appearance. “Nine or 10 years ago, bullying online hadn’t been explored much,” she says. “But I was fascinated by these people who spent all day just sitting and hating on the internet. So I encouraged it.” Looking through those early videos, there are far more “You sound like collon” and “you’ve got the biggest nose i have ever seen” and “Ur face freaks me out” comments than “I luv you Miranda” ones. “Whatever they didn’t like, I’d do it more to get a rise,” she says. “The lipstick was one of those things – if they said it was ugly, I made it brighter and bigger. Miranda was built by her haters.” Haters Back Off is available on Netflix now. 