Steve Rose 
 The paparazzi won't exactly be beating a path to the Lake District for this, but it's a small festival with an agreeably broad outlook. The guest of honour is John Hurt, who's in conversation and introducing a number of movies from his prolific career, including his celebrated Quentin Crisp double bill. There's also a tribute to the versatile Tony Palmer, including his seminal Leonard Cohen movie Bird On A Wire, and a complete showing of his eight-hour Wagner series (starring Richard Burton and Laurence Olivier). Also in the mix are recent releases such as Tyrannosaur and Melancholia, award-winning world cinema and uplifting films about life-changing illnesses. Various venues, Thu to 26 Feb, keswickfilmclub.org/kff God knows it's not easy being a student these days, but at least you get your own film festivals. This is the UK's largest, and therefore the best place to get spotted, but it's principally for, as well as by, students. So the opening night consists of locally made films made and selected by 14- to 18-year-olds and there's advice on hand for budding film-makers from the likes of Submarine and Tyrannosaur cinematographer Erik Wilson. The rest of the films are organised like a teenager's bedroom. Each programme gives you a bit of everything: drama like For Elise as well as animation, music video, etc, with awards up for grabs, too. If there's a common theme, according to the organisers, it's, er, death. But cheer up, they've also got a good Vimeo channel if you can't afford a ticket. Cornerhouse, Mon to Thu, exposuresfestival.co.uk A successful "found" performance venue last year, Hackney Wick's Yard Theatre now turns into a pop-up cinema, with a brief season of vintage movies to match the repurposed warehouse setting (you should probably wrap up warm). Fittingly, the season kicks off tonight with Reservoir Dogs – a must-see for fans of movies set in warehouses. There are "chick-flick Tuesdays" for those so inclined, but also a heavy slant towards 1980s films that are now seen as classics, particularly those featuring pop gods of the era, so book now for Prince's Purple Rain, Michael Jackson's deranged anthology Moonwalker, and David Bowie's feather-cut fantasy Labyrinth. The Yard Theatre, E9, Sat to 3 Mar, the-yard.co.uk The cinema-starved Welsh borders have been well served by this festival in recent years: 14,000 people attended last year. And they're hungry for more. Taking over village halls, pubs and picnic sites, the festival brings more than 70 titles, including recent releases such as Shame and The Artist, silent classics such as Sunrise and, er, The Artist, kids' films, rural-themed movies (like new doc Tune For The Blood – a year in the life of a Herefordshire farmer), and more. Plus some special events: Withnail And I director Bruce Robinson talks to Francine Stock in Moccas Village Hall; there's a celebration of The Archers; and guest appearances and location walks around Owen Sheers's locally set novel Resistance, which was made into a movie last year. Various venues, Fri to 11 Mar and 4 to 20 May, borderlinesfilmfestival.co.uk 