Tim Adams 
 The 210 bus winds up the hill to Hampstead Heath in north London, passing Harry Styles’s house on one side, a 17th-century highwayman’s inn on the other, under the overhanging branches of the ancient oaks and sycamores. At 6.45 on a Saturday morning, both decks of the bus were surprisingly packed, standing room only. Squashed against a window, trying to hold my phone steady, I was scrolling through some of the more notable quotes of Beatrice and Sidney Webb, the original Fabians, founders of the New Statesman, who did much of their revolutionary thinking about the plight of the English working man while walking under these trees on their way to the Hampstead Society for the Study of Socialism. I copy and paste this one, from Beatrice: “Nature still obstinately refuses to cooperate by making rich people innately superior to the poor people …” before giving up and looking around the strangely packed Saturday morning bus. On the morning after the morning after Brexit, the occasion for my bus journey is a comment made by Andy Burnham MP. His suggestion was that the modern Labour party had lost its natural electorate to Ukip, by being “too much Hampstead and not enough Hull”; that among the divides exposed in this referendum, the most dangerous one was within a Labour movement that cared more for the moral high ground of progressive liberalism than the lives of the working and non-working poor. The caricature is an easy one, of course, but no less true for that. It has also been a feature of the Labour movement since its inception. The same charge could easily have been made against not only the socialism of the Webbs but also that of Marx and Engels – who lived near these leafy lanes – or more recently of the Hampstead salons for the fellow travellers of Eric Hobsbawm or Ralph Miliband or Michael Foot. Because it has always enjoyed privilege and education, Hampstead society is ripe for parody. Its tribes still give themselves up easily. A glance around the packed bus suggests three distinct groups. There is a large gang of drawly and giggling girls, now into their 12th hour of Friday’s partying, heading home in floaty maxi dresses. There are neat-looking young women, apparently domestic help, Filipina and north African, some with the toddlers of bankers and lawyers already in tow. And, the biggest group this, there are Polish and eastern European builders, shouting indecipherable jokes, ready for their prompt Saturday morning start, jumping off to plaster and marble and artfully distress the kitchens and bathrooms of the £10m houses that edge the heath along this route. The Hampstead tribe that has set all this early morning activity in motion does not really favour public transport. It is a global elite inflected with French, American and Russian accents. On perfect Saturday mornings like these, this tribe devotes some quality time to small dogs and small children. Or it jogs up the old high street, letting single-digit body fat and Lycra make the argument that its gilded life is the result of rigid self-discipline, not outrageous fortune. As the playwright and long-time Hampstead resident David Hare points out to me, this latter tribe has long eclipsed the caricature of the Hampstead liberal that persisted for a century. “If Andy Burnham came to Hampstead,” he says, “he would find that the great wave of Jewish European immigration which gave Hampstead its artistic brilliance and liberal outlook is long gone. “On a point of fact, Hampstead now votes Tory. American financiers in pink shorts and back-to-front baseball caps push the hedge fund managers of 2040 round in thousand-pound chariots, and every second store is an estate agency.” All of this is true. It is also the sharpest end of the “filthy rich” policies of the Blair and Brown years, of attitudes which, for better and then worse, turned a blind eye to the excesses of the City of London – and the resultant unprecedented influx of eastern European construction workers to grand-design the property boom – in order to fund the ambitious (and progressive) spending plans of New Labour. As I wander up Hampstead High Street past the pavement tables of the bonus-rich, who study the dramatic headlines while sipping £7 smoothies, there is not a tremor to be discerned of the previous day’s earthquake. Why would there be? The ability of seismic events to affect the lifestyles of the capital-rich elite has long passed – in many ways, ironically, Europe represented our best hope of addressing that fact. But of course Burnham is misguided in suggesting you have to go from here to Hull to find vast cultural and economic divides; they exist in London around every corner. There are still a few original stallholders in Hampstead’s covered market. Andy Theodorou, a bullet-headed fishmonger, is filleting plaice. I wonder if he’s a Brexiter. Not at all, he tells me. He woke this morning “really, really depressed”. “I think there are issues in the fishing industry with quotas, but those are things that can be negotiated. People talk about immigration but the Polish and them come here, work really hard, pay taxes. That’s not a problem. Thing is, right up until 23 June, this has been our best year ever. And now, 24 June, all that is put at risk.” He’s been here 30 years, seen the advance of estate agents, the changing culture. He doesn’t love all of it but, as Beatrice Webb might have said, it’s easier to see a bigger picture, to be a liberal, when you’ve a steady job. “Put it this way,” Theodorou says. “It’s no good having plenty of British fish if no one has any money to buy it.” 