 England have lost to enough A teams around the world to recognise that the outcome of these matches does not mean much, but the manner of Sri Lanka's defeat here can hardly fill the touring side with much optimism before the first Test at Lord's, which starts on Thursday. Sri Lanka encountered a lush green outfield, a moist, unreliable pitch and three eager English seamers anxious to impress. In two innings they mustered 297 runs and there was never any suggestion that Rob Key, the captain of the A team, would be compelled to turn to his spinner, Alex Loudon, the sort of bowler the Sri Lankans know how to handle. Worcester's wicket is substandard at the moment and while the England set-up will welcome the fact that Sri Lanka have been thrashed in two-and-a-half days, this outcome does not tally with the ECB's long-term determination to raise the profile of the A team. To provide a spectacle, they need to play on better pitches than this. Otherwise, the concept of an A team playing regularly at home has been vindicated. Here, the touring team knew they were up against motivated and, in these conditions, formidable opposition. Jon Lewis, who took nine for 90 in the match, was their chief tormentor. This means that he has gleaned 19 wickets for 165 runs this season, which represents a substantial 'nudge' in the direction of the selectors. Those selectors have an interesting choice to make before the first Test. Lewis is the form player, who revels in May conditions. He could easily be a match-winner at Lord's. But Liam Plunkett and Sajid Mahmood represent the future. They are, for example, more likely to play a role in next winter's Ashes series. So is it more profitable to give these youngsters valuable Test experience? Duncan Fletcher, who was here, was at pains to point out the importance of thinking long-term. 'You have to try to be consistent; you can't just look to tomorrow,' he said. Which might not be great news for Lewis. Neither Plunkett nor the gangling Stuart Broad did themselves any harm, either, in this match. Alongside Lewis and Ravi Bopara, they polished off the tail in 95 minutes. Only Tillakaratne Dilshan offered any resistance. In the past, Dilshan was a beguiling dasher who was dangerous on his home patch. There were signs that he is more disciplined now. Otherwise there was nothing much to cheer the touring team as Alastair Cook and Key knocked off the 39 runs required for victory in eight overs. But Sri Lanka's coach, Tom Moody, remained doggedly positive. 'At least we have a clearer indication of what the 2006 Duke ball will do,' he said. It seems as if this ball has a prouder seam and darts around more than its predecessor. 'Even Murali [who returns to England today after attending his aunt's funeral] has been bowling seamers in the nets,' said Moody. Fletcher, who had just had his first serious meeting of the summer with his fellow selectors, emphasised the importance of not rushing England's crocks back into the Test team. 'Michael [Vaughan] hopes to play next week [for Yorkshire], but he has to take his time,' he said. 'Simon [Jones] is a major concern. He showed he was a world-class bowler last summer. We need him badly, but we must also consider his feelings after another setback.' Fletcher said that the selectors had spent more time discussing the bowling options for Lord's rather than the captaincy, but acknowledged that a 'difficult decision' awaited them about how many burdens can be put on Andrew Flintoff. 'Obviously Flintoff is a crucial player; he bats and bowls,' Fletcher said. 'We also have to consider what's good for him. Because what's good for him is good for England. I've spoken to him and he's very keen to captain.' Flintoff will take charge on Thursday, but life becomes more complicated if Vaughan's absence becomes permanent. 