 The injury that caused Justine Henin-Hardenne to consider withdrawing nine days ago has recovered enough for the Belgian now to consider winning her second slam in a row. That was the message of the French Open champion's impressive 6-2, 6-2 victory over Svetlana Kuznetsova which lasted less than an hour.  Alarming though the bandage looks that protects two damaged fingers and covers part of the left hand, there is nothing Henin cannot now do with it, except maybe clap herself after she has won.  Her service toss worked smoothly yesterday, like the release of a small bird, and the backhand was coordinated with deft little movements at the racket neck, preparing it to go under, over or behind the ball, to wind up fiercely or stroke through smoothly, and to move between a multiplicity of guiding motions without inhibition.  "I'm just happy to be playing," Henin said last week. "I'm happy with the way I'm playing," she is saying now. Although clay still offers the best chance of getting past Serena Williams, grass has never offered her a better chance than tomorrow.  Henin broke serve at the second and third attempts against an 18-year-old who never looked as though she could cope against the variety of attacks she faced from both wings, from the baseline and the forecourt, with angles and with spin.  Kuznetsova was probably carrying a thigh strain and she was playing her first Wimbledon. But the Russian was good enough the evening before to have outlasted Maria Sharapova, the year's most promising newcomer, employing a heavy serve and bullying approach shots.  Kuznetsova had tried to hustle Sharapova along too quickly when serving, twice getting a talking-to from the umpire for looking to restart prematurely. But Henin was mostly more than ready.  Usually she used the return as a preliminary for bigger attacks on the fourth or sixth ball of the rally. It worked well. She set herself up for 18 clean winners, against Kuznetsova's four. That was the most significant stat of the match. Against an opponent 35lb heavier, it was also helpful as an omen.  "It's true I was thinking about the semi-final," said Henin. "I thought if I am going to be aggressive against Serena I am going to have to be aggressive against Kuznetsova."  Only once, at the start of the second set, did Kuznetsova reveal the skills that have made her Martina Navratilova's choice of doubles partner in her attempt to equal the record of 20 Wimbledon titles.  It happened after a flowing three-quarter-pace serve had created time to move smoothly in, setting up a rally in which Kuznetsova was twice forced to supplement volleys with a spectacular smash. When the second went for a winner, the crowd became excited, almost for the first time. It did not happen again. Mostly spectators had to be satisfied with the beauty of Henin's classical game, which recalls the days of smaller-headed rackets, full of rich variety and options.  "This is the best I have played so far," Henin said. "I have proved that mentally and physically I am good." Then the clay-court champion added: "When I play tactically well, I think maybe grass is my best surface."  The question tomorrow against Serena Williams is whether it will revive negative feelings, after the noise, tears and controversy of their Paris meeting. Richard Williams thinks there might. Henin thinks there will not.  "There are long careers ahead of us," Henin said. "I think there is no problem between us. For half an hour we talked in the locker room today, and not about tennis. I think we are professional enough to do this. It would be better for us all." 