Britain is missing out on billions of pounds in exports every year because of a failure to help small and medium-sized companies crack new markets, according to an analysis that highlights firms’ worries about exporting after Brexit. The UK is among the five worst performing countries in Europe when it comes to getting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) exporting, says the report (pdf) from the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) consultancy.  The low share of total UK exports that comes from SMEs puts the country at the bottom of European rankings alongside Germany, Sweden, Poland and Finland. But the UK and Germany are also in the top five spots for the level of absolute exports, thanks to the success of their larger firms in trading overseas. The CEBR said bringing smaller firms’ export rates more in line with larger firms’ trading patterns could provide a significant boost to government plans to almost double UK exports to £1tn by 2020 – a target it is widely expected to miss by a significant margin.  The report found that less than a fifth of the UK’s SMEs were selling their goods and services overseas, compared with two-fifths of big businesses in the UK. Helping more SMEs enter new markets and bringing their export rate up to 40%, could reap £141.3bn a year in overseas sales, the analysis claimed.  “Given that SMEs account for around 60% of all private sector employment in the UK and just under half of the overall turnover in the UK’s private sector, there is considerable scope to boost the number of SMEs selling goods and services overseas and, as a result, raise the overall level of exports across the UK economy,” the report stated.  While the potential gains from more SME exports look good on paper, they appear much harder to achieve in reality as underscored by the CEBR’s polling of 1,054 smaller and medium-sized companies to accompany its analysis. The polling of SME bosses showed only 5% had plans to start exporting in the next five years and more than two-fifths of those polled said Brexit would hinder their ability to export. The report, commissioned by the currency and money transfer company World First, came alongside the chancellor’s attempts to allay business fears about a “hard Brexit”, which could see the government striking a deal to leave the EU that excludes Britain from the single market.  In his Conservative party conference speech on Monday, Philip Hammond pledged to fight for “the best possible access to European markets for our manufacturing and services industries”. The World First/CEBR report found that alongside Brexit, potential exporters were put off from selling into overseas markets by language barriers and cultural differences. Language was the top barrier by SMEs looking to enter the Asia-Pacific region and South America (21%). Culture was named as the biggest barrier for SMEs wanting to enter Africa and the Middle East. Asked about the decision to leave the EU, 42% of SMEs said it would hinder them; 19% said it would help them. Just over a third, or 35%, said it would make no difference.  “The fallout from the UK referendum has also brought about a significant amount of uncertainty for businesses but, if anything, it reinforces the importance of taking a global view and exploring new markets,” said World First’s chief executive, Jonathan Quin. “As the government’s Brexit negotiations take centre stage over the next few years, we would urge that SMEs are included and actively consulted throughout the process in order to ensure their views and needs are actively considered.” 