Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
17:45
 Bringing private companies into the PLC rule book strikes one as a move so targeted at a particular series of events, that it will, I expect, come to be known as the BHS law. But had the proposals outlined today by the secretary of state been in place six months ago, I’m not wholly convinced that we would have avoided the corporate governance scandals that have plagued the last summer. To force private companies to abide by the corporate governance code will do little unless that code is tightened. BHS may have been a private company, but Sports Direct isn’t, and we all know what has gone on there. That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. Updated
17:27
 Theresa May spoke to Donald Trump this afternoon. This is what Number 10 is saying about their calls. A spokesman said: The prime minister called the US president-elect this afternoon as part of establishing a regular dialogue between both of them. They discussed how the president-elect’s transition plans were progressing and agreed that their teams should continue to build close relationships through this period, including with a meeting of their national security advisers in the United States before Christmas. They discussed NATO, agreeing on the importance of the alliance, the need for more NATO members to meet the target of spending 2% of GDP and the role that NATO can play in addressing diverse threats. They agreed to stay in close touch and to meet at the earliest possible opportunity. And here are the key lines. Updated
17:22
 Here is an extract from the letter sent to Donald Tusk. According to the Independent, it was backed by 80 parliamentarians, including 70 Tory MPs. They told Tusk: We warmly welcome the news that individual member states are working with the prime minister and Her Majesty’s government to resolve the status of EU citizens in the UK and our citizens living and working in Europe, but we are extremely concerned that members of the commission - particularly commissioner [Michel] Barnier - seem worryingly indifferent to securing reciprocal rights for our and your resident citizens. His attempts to prevent negotiations taking place on this issue between the democratically-elected governments of EU member states are making it harder to achieve what is in everyone’s interest: ending the anxiety and uncertainty for UK and EU citizens living in one another’s territories. It is the only just and humane thing to do and anything else would be unworthy of Europe’s common values. People are not bargaining chips. Human beings are not cards to be traded ‘tit for tat’ in a political playground. 
17:12
 Here is some more Twitter comment on the Tusk letter. From John Stevens, the Daily Mail’s Europe correspondent Angry tone of Tusk's letter shows the nicey-nice days are over... the gloves are off From Bruno Waterfield, the Times’s Brussels correspondent Patience running out. @eucopresident tells Tories to trigger Art 50https://t.co/SuwM7hKAvd From Jennifer Rankin, the Guardian’s Brussels correspondent Carefully-worded response to all the crocodile tears over EU citizens' rights. https://t.co/ZTQPp8gngf 
17:05
 Steve Baker, the Conservative MP who helped to organise the letter to Donald Tusk asking him for an early agreement on the rights of Britons in the EU and EU nationals in Britain after Brexit, has criticised Tusk’s response. Dogmatic intransigence from @eucopresident is placing EU processes before EU voters' concerns - again https://t.co/Ei1EdPB3CQ 
16:58
 Here is the key paragraph from Tusk’s letter. In your letter you state that the European Commission, and in particular Mr Barnier, are attempting to prevent negotiations, thereby creating ‘anxiety and uncertainty for the UK and EU citizens living in one another’s territories.’ It is a very interesting argument, the only problem being that it has nothing to do with reality. Would you not agree that the only source of anxiety and uncertainty is rather the decision on Brexit? And that the only way to dispel the fears and doubts of all the citizens concerned is the quickest possible start of the negotiations based on Art. 50 of the Treaty? 
16:53
 Here is the full text of Tusk’s letter on his website. 
16:45
 Donald Tusk, president of the European council, has published a remarkably scathing, and even in parts sarcastic, letter he has sent to around 80 MPs criticising Britain’s stance on Brexit. The MPs, led by the Conservatives Michael Tomlinson and Steve Baker, said in their own letter to Tusk that the EU’s refusal to start talks on the status of EU nationals living in the UK, and Britons living in Europe, was creating “anxiety and uncertainty”. Tusk says that it was the vote for Brexit that is creating this uncertainty. And he says that, if Britain wants this matter resolved, it could invoke article 50, allowing the Brexit talks to starts. He tells the MPs that their argument has “nothing to do with reality”. His words are unusually blunt for a letter of this kind. It gives a revealing insight into quite how frustrated some EU leaders are getting with Britain’s refusal to commence Brexit talks. My reply to the UK MPs on the status of EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens living and working in Europe: https://t.co/NR0KC80j3k pic.twitter.com/lBRQfv7rr5 Updated
16:26
 And, while we’re on the subject of music, May has received a glowing endorsement from Kate Bush. In an interview with Macleans, a Canadian magazine, Bush said: We have a female prime minister here in the UK. I actually really like her and think she’s wonderful. I think it’s the best thing that’s happened to us in a long time. She’s a very intelligent woman but I don’t see much to fear. I will say it is great to have a woman in charge of the country. She’s very sensible and I think that’s a good thing at this point in time. 
16:23
 Back to Ukip, and the Telegraph’s Christopher Hope has been interviewing Paul Nuttall, the new Ukip leader. It turns out that Nuttall has something in common with David Cameron; he’s a Smiths fan. Paul Nuttall's favourite song is This Charming Man by Manchester 1980s band The Smiths, and his preferred EU holiday destination is Spain. He also has something in common with Theresa May. They are both admirers of the Liberal Unionist statesman Joseph Chamberlain. Paul Nuttall's political heroes: Joseph Chamberlain, former Tory MP, and John Redmond, who united the Irish Parliamentary party 100 yrs ago 
16:10
 Michael Gove used to spend his life reorganising schools, managing Tory MPs, trying to reform prisons and orchestrating the departure of the UK from the European Union. Now, though, he is a mere backbencher and it seems he has nothing better to do with his afternoon than spend it on Twitter. It turns out he can use emojis. This is what he tagged on a tweet from me about Ed Balls taking part in the Strictly Come Dancing live tour next year. 🍾🎉 get me tickets https://t.co/DekLPr9eCJ Even more worryingly, it turns out he now speaks teenage. In response to this: 💯% correct from @Stewart4Pboro in corp governance debate; Tories must be as opposed to boardroom abuses of power as much as union abuses he tweeted this: Totes agree https://t.co/tWs2g5M5ac 
15:56
 In a statement marking his appointment as Ukip’s new Brexit spokesman Gerard Batten said Ukip did not want the government to invoke article 50, the measure that starts the two-year EU withdrawal process. That could delay, or water down, withdrawal, he claimed. Instead he said Ukip wanted the government to just repeal the European Communities Act as quickly as possible. He said: Theresa May and her Tory government cannot be trusted to deliver our withdrawal from the EU. She was a remainer who heads a predominantly remain government. If she were genuine about delivering Brexit she would have triggered article 50 the moment she became prime minister. Instead nothing has been done in the last five months, and there are no plans for the next four. Then we will face at least another two years of protracted negotiations. Under article 50 they could be extended for years to come. Mrs May’s strategy is to delay and delay the whole process in order to fudge it and to try and foist on us a ‘Norwegian or Swiss’-type EU model whereby we continue to pay money to the EU, obey a large percentage of its laws, and have open borders. In which case we would not have left the European Union at all. Ukip’s policy will be to reject article 50. Rather, we will call for parliament to repeal the European Communities Act (1972) immediately as the first step in the process: this will restore law-making supremacy to the UK parliament and put the British government in the driving seat of negotiations not the EU. 
15:51
 Ukip’s new leader Paul Nuttall has been carrying out a reshuffle. Mike Hookem, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, has been made fisheries spokesman. He was the party’s defence and veterans spokesman, but he will keep responsibility for veterans. John Bickley, a former election candidate, has been appointed immigration spokesman.  Gerard Batten, MEP for London, has become Brexit spokesman.  Julia Reid, MEP for south west England, has become environment spokesperson. Reid has a science doctorate and worked as a laboratory researcher before becoming an MEP. Bill Etheridge, MEP for the West Midlands, has been made defence spokesman. Etheridge came third in the last Ukip leadership contest (the one won by Diane James). 
15:29
 John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, has put out a statement criticising Philip Hammond for refusing to commit to keeping the triple lock into the next parliament. (See 1.12pm.) McDonnell said: The chancellor’s refusal again today to commit to the triple lock in the next parliament, only further proves that the Tories are abandoning older people. After six wasted years of Tory failure, we already have a social care system close to collapse, and a National Health Service that has been cut to the bone. Hammond’s refusal once again to provide pensioners with the reassurances over the triple lock will only add to the worries of people in their older age. Labour is committed to supporting older people, and ensuring they have a secure and sustainable retirement. Labour will support the pensions triple lock and instead of cutting taxes for the super-rich and giant corporations will make sure our NHS and social care is properly funded. Today’s Guardian/ICM poll tables (pdf) show why Labour is so keen to improve its offer to pensioners. Amongst over-65s the Tories are ahead of Labour by 60% to 18%. And, amongst the over-75s, their lead is even higher - 67% to 12%. These figures, of course, are based on a sub-sample of the poll, meaning that they are much less reliable than the headline poll figures. But, even allowing for a colossal margin of error, they are not great for Labour. 
15:17
 Severin Carrell As the Herald reports, the SNP spent less on their EU referendum campaign than they did fighting the Glenrothes byelection in 2008. Commenting on this, the Scottish Conservative MSP Murdo Fraser said: The SNP is behaving like leaving the EU is the end of the world for Scotland. But the party’s pitiful investment in the campaign tells another story completely. The SNP is not a poor organisation, yet it treated the EU referendum like it was a council by-election. Now we know Alex Neil and other senior SNP figures wanted Brexit, perhaps that explains why such little effort and cash was invested. 
14:21
 Severin Carrell Scottish opposition parties have questioned the depth of Sturgeon’s commitment to keeping the UK in the EU after it emerged the Scottish National party spent just £90,830 on its referendum campaign – less than the Sun newspaper and less than its spending on byelections. It had a legal spending limit of £700,000. The disclosure follows the Scottish government’s admission at the time of the referendum that it had not publicised, press released or printed its official brochure urging a remain vote in the referendum: the document was put online without any fanfare in April. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, said the figure “reveals the low priority that they gave the referendum. They hardly lifted a finger during the referendum.” He said the SNP could only redeem herself by battling against Brexit. An SNP spokesman said that attack was ridiculous: Scottish voters had overwhelmingly backed the remain vote, by 62% to 38%, and SNP leaders including Sturgeon and her predecessor Alex Salmond had campaigned vigorously for the EU. 
14:07
 Libby Brooks The Scottish government’s Brexit minister Michael Russell has warned that the UK government’s incoherent approach to Brexit is resulting in an increasingly hardline attitude in Europe. Giving evidence to a Holyrood committee on Tuesday morning, Russell said:  The European view is hardline and it’s getting harder. They are increasingly fed up with not understanding what’s going on and hearing things which, in the words of the Dutch foreign minister about Boris Johnson, are intellectually incoherent and there’s no doubt that that’s true. Speaking as first minister Nicola Sturgeon told the Irish senate that the option of a second independence referendum remained “firmly on the table”, Russell confirmed her position that the Scottish government was “ruling absolutely nothing out”. Russell said that the Scottish government would publish over the next few weeks a paper which will outline what are “the options that exist at this time” for Scotland. They lie broadly in three areas: the undifferentiated option of leaving the EU in exactly that same way as the UK intends to leaves. At the other end of the spectrum is the possibility that we will not be able to find any other adequate solution but to go forward with another independence referendum and give the people of Scotland the choice. In the middle are a range of differentiated options and the success of those will depend on the willingness of the UK government to include those in their negotiating position. Russell added that there are currently almost 30 sub-state arrangements within the EU, and noted that Sturgeon herself had confirmed last week that a Norway-style model was being considered. But Russell went on to caution: “The key to this will lie in the willingness of the UK to fold into their negotiating position deals and opportunities which exist for other parts of the UK.” For example, he said that it had been made clear at last Friday’s meeting of the British-Irish Council that “there must be a commitment ... that there has to be a deal for Ireland as an island that does not have a hard border”. Russell also pointed out that Brexit is not the only thing happening in the EU, and that the union is facing a number of challenges currently. Terms like “impossible” should not be used at this time, he said.  I genuinely do not believe that anything is unlikely or impossible because the EU has always been flexible but these are extraordinary circumstances and we have to continue to talk about them. 