Marks & Spencer is to take on John Lewis with a heart-warming Christmas ad starring Janet McTeer as a glamorous “Mrs Claus” with a James Bond-style alter ego. With retailers’ festive commercials an annual battle for hearts and minds, the high street chain has taken a leaf out its rival’s book with a story about six-year-old Jake, who after a year of squabbling with his sister Anna, wants to make up by giving her a present she loves. “Mrs Claus represents a lot of M&S’s values: she’s ageless and approachable, with wit and great style,” said Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne, M&S’s executive director of customer, marketing and M&S.com. “She epitomises the huge efforts our customers put in to making the festive season special.” The retailer hopes the feelgood ad will pull in shoppers this Christmas after last year’s disappointing sales performance. Bousquet-Chavanne said 2015’s more product-focused campaign had failed to capture consumers’ imagination and it had polled the opinions of thousands of customers to find out what they really wanted to see.  Asked if the ad’s tone was also a response to John Lewis’s successful use of ads that tell stories in an attempt to win hearts, Bousquet-Chavanne said: “Nobody has a monopoly on emotion and we do compete on the high street [with John Lewis]. We think it is very M&S.”  The cinematic ad, filmed in Iceland with sweeping shots of glaciers and dramatic ice cliffs, is directed by Oscar-winning director Tom Hooper. Its shows Mrs Claus race to Jake’s aid, piloting a skidoo and a helicopter from Lapland – all while wearing a red Per Una bodycon dress and matching wool coat – to deliver a pair of red sparkly trainers to his London home. Bousquet-Chavanne declined to say how much was spent on the making of the ad but that the figure was less than for Christmas 2015. He added that its weekly barometer of shopper confidence showed positive sentiment among its customer base as the peak trading season gets under way. “We feel good that there will be growth in this retail season,” he said. “The customer is in the right place.” This will be the first Christmas with Steve Rowe, who took over as M&S chief executive six months ago, at the helm. This week he announced plans to slash the amount of shopfloor space devoted to M&S’s clothing ranges and to close 30 UK stores.  The ad will make its debut on Friday on Channel 4 at 9pm during Gogglebox. It will be shown again during The X Factor on Saturday, enabling the retailer to reach a combined audience of 7.5 million people. But with social media increasingly important, Mrs Claus also has her own emoji and hashtag, #AskMrsClaus. 