You want me to stay for an extra three years? I’ll do one more and then I’m off. Mark Carney’s decision to leave the Bank of England in 2019 looks to be a straightforward snub to Theresa May. Earlier on Monday, the prime minister’s spokeswoman described the governor as “absolutely” the best person for the job, which is the sort of thing you say if you think he’ll do the full eight-year term. But he’s doing six. Yes, it’s one more year than was signalled back at his appointment, but it is not the full deal. Those angry Tory Brexiters who have been making mischief at Carney’s expense for the past month will count this result as a victory for them. May has played this saga terribly. The Brexiters’ grumbles about Carney’s pre-EU referendum comments were fading from most people’s memories before she breathed new life into the soap opera in her speech to the Conservative party conference a month ago.  She complained about the “bad side-effects” of low interest rates and quantitative easing, and said “a change has got to come”. What sort of change? She didn’t say, but suddenly it was open season on Carney. The Brexiters who resented Carney’s comments that leaving the EU would be the “biggest domestic risk to financial stability” popped up to denounce the governor and all his works. Michael Gove said Carney should learn some humility. Nigel Lawson thought he should resign.  If he must stay, said the Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan, Carney should know his place. “It’s important to comport yourself as a quiet and discreet public servant,” he said. William Hague was a rarity in being a remainer, but he filled in May’s blank about the possible form of change. Central bankers had lost the plot in their addiction to low interest rates, Hague argued, and “the era of their much-vaunted independence will come, possibly quite dramatically, to its end”. Would those voices have been so emboldened had May not spoken? It’s hard to say, but the chorus line has been an extraordinary spectacle.  Senior politicians, even those who are years out of office, are normally wary of treading on the Bank’s operational independence. Suddenly, the criticisms were personal – Hague excepted – but also woefully vague about alternative monetary prescriptions. Does anybody seriously believe the UK economy would be in better shape if only interest rates had been, say, 3% for the past few years?  May, we were told after the conference speech, did not mean to question the Bank’s independence and was merely expressing sympathy with savers.  She should learn to take care. Her words provoked a pointless row about central bank independence and she ended up begging Carney to stay. In the event, the governor has agreed the shortest possible extension. He has had the last laugh while May’s handling looks amateurish. Former director of bailed-out bank to chair of HSBC UK. That is probably not how Clara Furse’s appointment will be announced, but it would be accurate. Furse was a non-executive director of Belgian bank Fortis when, in partnership with Royal Bank of Scotland, it did the disastrous top-of-the-market purchase of ABN Amro in 2008. As with RBS, a state-sponsored rescue for Fortis followed. Furse, a former successful chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, was rehabilitated via a stint on the Bank’s financial policy committee. All the same, chairing HSBC’s ringfenced division in the UK is a big job. If Fortis had been British, would she be deemed suitable by the regulators? It’s hard to think so. A group of 124 British institutional funds want to be paid at least £100m in damages by Tesco. The poor souls feel terribly misled by the supermarket’s overstatement of profits a couple of years ago and are calling for their investors to be compensated for the subsequent fall in the share price.  That, at least, is the official explanation for filing a claim in the high court, courtesy of Bentham Europe, a group that funds such legal actions. Some of the fund managers may indeed be driven by the righteous sense that investors “have a right to rely on statements made by companies to ensure that they correctly allocate capital”, as Bentham’s Jeremy Marshall puts it. But more than a few, one suspects, aren’t terribly interested in US-style litigation and would be happy to take the rough with the smooth, if only everybody else would. They may be participating solely because they fear missing out if Tesco ends up having to write a cheque. Last year, Tesco settled a similar class action in the US for a fraction of the value of the initial claim. In the latest case, the supermarket could try offering the litigants, say, £10m for their nuisance value and see if their heart is really in it. 