Television is often accused by faith leaders of marginalising religion. But, if this sin of omission exists, the charitable explanation would be that the subject imposes a double penance on schedulers. In a largely secular society, not only is the potential audience for shows on religious subjects small, but those few who might tune in tend to be hypersensitive about coverage of their beliefs or those of rival worldviews. But, though theology may be a minority interest, the politics and psychology of the Vatican have long proved a fascination, and TV fiction has often genuflected towards Rome. Graham Greene (a convert who made the church his central subject as a novelist) once said that Catholicism was naturally dramatic because of the moral jeopardy within a system in which believers were forbidden contraceptives or abortion, and clergy were forbidden sex at all. This week, The Young Pope – starring Jude Law as Lenny Belardo, an American cardinal who becomes Pope Pius XIII – takes its place in a congregation of memorable TV shows involving Catholicism. President Josiah Bartlet in The West Wing, Dana Scully in The X-Files and Peggy Olsen in Mad Men were all Catholics whose faith was significant. And as a result of their Italian-American background, most of the characters in The Sopranos had been baptised in the Roman faith, and the sacrament of confession (and its secular descendant, therapy) underlay the moral agonies of Tony Soprano and his relatives. Another high-profile US series – Lost – and a British one – Life on Mars/Ashes to Ashes – both proved at their conclusions to have been occurring in versions of purgatory, the place of purification that, in Catholic doctrine, stands between death and heaven for troubled souls. The Young Pope, though, stands out as a startlingly original treatment of the topic. Created by big-screen film director Paolo Sorrentino, whose films include The Great Beauty and Youth, no other recruit from the movies has transferred their cinematic sensibility to the new medium so successfully. The most obvious story to have told would be a sort of House of Cardinals, exploiting the parallels (elections, cabinet positions, assassination threats) between the Vatican and Washington. The Young Pope has a small strand of such narrative – disloyal Cardinals plot to “save the church” from the unpredictable American – but Sorrentino starts after the papal election, avoiding the tantalisingly melodramatic plotlines of the death of an old pope and the choice of a new one. This is no ecclesiastical procedural: Law’s character wakes up as pope, preparing to face the faithful in St Peter’s Square. As it happens, this is logistically improbable (popes tend to be elected in early evening and address the waiting crowds immediately) but Sorrentino needs Pope Pius XIII to start in bed so he can unleash a lavish dream sequence, seamlessly merging pontifical news footage with fantasy material, that sets the tone for the whole show. In terms of televisual heritage, The Young Pope most bends the knee to Mad Men: Lenny Belardo, like Don Draper, has a central blankness that is both attractive and dangerous. Abandoned by hippy parents, he was raised at an orphanage where he came under the tutelage of Sister Mary (Diane Keaton), a nun who became his surrogate mother. As happened with the enigmatic advertising executive, the truths and rumours about Lenny’s past seem set to become central. Otherwise, Sorrentino cuts his own cloth, consistently resisting the templates of Vatican drama. The standard storyline of a liberal reformist pope who battles reactionaries is reversed. Law’s character is theologically severe, confirming homosexuality as a sin and urging the faithful to make God their priority. And, while the current occupant of the throne of St Peter is Pope Francis, a natural theatric happy to pose for selfies with the crowds, Pius XIII refuses to be photographed and delivers his public homilies in silhouette. What’s most striking, though, is that its attitude to the papacy is simultaneously cheeky and serious. Pius XIII is a chain-smoker whose diet consists largely of Cherry Coke Zero, while Keaton’s Sister Mary sleeps in a T-shirt with the slogan: “I’m a virgin (but this is an old shirt).” Sorrentino also delights in surreal background details, including a kangaroo gifted to the pope by the Australian government, Cardinals playing pool on a table occupied by a dog, and footballing nuns taking part in a penalty shootout while Ave Maria soars on the soundtrack. Amid these moments of irreverence, Law’s pope is a reverent man, whose faith and vows are taken seriously. Even before the virgin T-shirt, it’s clear that Keaton’s character is a sort of Mother Mary. And, while it is common in the work of Dan Brown for the pope to be secretly the antichrist, there are strong early hints that Lenny may have dropped the anti. He seems to possess miraculous powers and, like Jesus, to have known of his mission since childhood.  This is a show that trusts its audience enough for a key plot point to be established through words written in unsubtitled Latin in the condensation on a coach window. Handed parts that must be among the most unusual but rewarding of their careers, Law and Keaton will have other actors praying not to be up against them for an Emmy. Their portrayals feature subtle touches of lightness and darkness that leave viewers alternately faithful and agnostic about them. Law creates a hybrid of humanity and unearthliness that recalls David Bowie as Thomas Newton. What might have been House of Cardinals becomes, in Sorrentino’s hands, something more like The Pope Who Fell to Earth – magnificently strange and strangely magnificent. 