 W-League leaders Sydney FC were held to a draw for the first time this season on Sunday in a 1-1 stalemate against Melbourne City at Allianz Stadium. The result saw the Sky Blues drop their first points in four games, while the draw for City moved them into outright fourth position. Matildas star Caitlin Foord went on a dazzling solo run through the heart of City’s defence before finishing coolly to give Sydney a 67th minute lead. But City, who had three more shots than their hosts, levelled the game in the 75th minute through a close range header from Jess Fishlock. Matildas midfielder Tameka Butt supplied all the goalscoring ammunition in Brisbane’s 3-0 home win over Western Sydney at Suncorp Stadium on Saturday. She scored twice in the first six minutes and completed her hat-trick in the second half, as Roar went outright fifth, three points clear of Wanderers on the ladder. She ensured a successful 100th W-League appearance for captain and Matildas stalwart Clare Polkinghorne, who got a standing ovation when substituted just before the end. Third-placed Canberra United dropped two precious home points to Adelaide United, despite a double from Ashleigh Sykes in their 2-2 draw at McKellar Park on Saturday. Looking to bounce back after a 6-1 away drubbing by Sydney four days earlier, Canberra led at half-time through a Sykes penalty. Mexican international Sophia Huerta equalised with a penalty she won herself and levelled the game for a second time, following a great solo run and finish, after Sykes had put Canberra ahead with a superb curling shot. Matildas veteran Lisa De Vanna made her second appearance of the week off the bench for her new club Canberra. Perth moved to within two points of Sydney with a game in hand after a thrilling 3-2 home win over Melbourne Victory on Sunday. Sam Kerr opened the scoring for Glory in the 50th minute from a corner, but Victory hit back to lead 2-1 through own goals by Arianna Romero and Alyssa Mautz. Vanessa Di Bernardo equalised from the penalty spot and Rosie Sutton also scored in the last 10 minutes to secure a vital victory for Perth. 