 Tim Henman admitted Greg Rusedski had made life difficult for him after disposing of his compatriot in their absorbing all-British second-round contest at the Hamburg Masters Series. The fifth seed and British No1 overcame rain, wind and a Rusedski fightback to set up a third-round meeting with Argentinian Juan Ignacio Chela after winning an intriguing encounter in straight sets 7-6 (7-3) 6-4. The match was Henman's second tour victory over his rival this year, taking his total to seven successes in nine meetings between the pair. But even though Rusedski has not beaten Henman since 1998, the 30-year-old from Oxford was adamant he was tested by his former Davis Cup team-mate on the clay-court surface. "Greg made it tough for me and I had to really raise my game," said Henman. "We both have good slices but in these conditions the ball was hardly getting up. I had to play good tennis to win." After a rain-delayed start, Rusedski was first to break serve and claim a 4-3 first-set lead, flashing a delightful backhand volley across the court, before Henman failed to make contact with a deep forehand return. However, Rusedski failed to capitalise as Henman hit back, saving a set point on his opponent's serve with a glorious backhand pass which helped him to break back and make it 5-5. Henman wrapped up the first set, winning the tie-break 7-3 as he produced a string of excellent cross-court forehands. Rusedski then changed rackets in a bid to stem the tide as Henman stamped his authority on the match, storming into a 4-0 second-set lead. And there was only a temporary reprieve for Rusedski as he fought back to win three consecutive games, before Henman went on to clinch the second set and the match. While Henman was complimentary about the performance of Rusedski, he criticised the tournament's organisation after the match, already delayed by 10 minutes, was temporarily stopped twice for further downpours. The match was played outdoors on court one while other second-round matches took place on the covered centre court at the Rothenbaum club. "It was really difficult," added Henman. "It was chucking it down, it's the pinnacle of our tour and it's not acceptable. There's been so much rain. "Given the conditions I thought the standard of play was really high and Greg was able to put me under pressure in the early stages. Greg is difficult to play against and the sliced backhand stays very low in these conditions. I felt I had to play some good tennis at the end of the second set." Henman also played down the significance of the result against his long-term foe, preferring to look ahead to the the third-round tie with Chela. "It's always the same if you play against someone from the same country, there's a bit of added spice, but that's magnified a bit by the media back home," added Henman. "I'm just pleased with my game and happy to get through, and fingers crossed the weather will improve tomorrow. I'll just try to play in my style and take the ball early and be aggressive. Although it's not easy in these conditions I fancy my chances." 