Philip French 
 There are 8,000 deaths and 120,000 people injured on Argentinian roads every year. The statistics are worse, I'm told, in some other countries and insurance companies are being shaken down all round the world. But apparently in deeply corrupt and unjust Argentina a sizable industry has grown up to exploit these accidents, involving the victims, relatives of the dead and maimed, lawyers, the medical profession and the police. This is the background to the latest movie by Pablo Trapero, one of the leaders in the recent resurgence of Latin American cinema. The 40-year-old Trapero's movies have ranged socially and geographically across Argentina these past 10 years, finding pain and resilience in every corner of the nation. In the heart-warming road movie Familia rodante, an 84-year-old widow persuades a dozen members of her extended family to join her on a sentimental journey north from Buenos Aires to the Brazilian border to attend a wedding in a town she hasn't visited for 70 years. In Born and Bred, a successful interior designer goes south to austere, frozen Patagonia in search of self-mortification after being at the wheel in Buenos Aires when his wife and daughter were killed in a motor accident. In his most celebrated picture, Lion's Den, Trapero's wife, Martina Gusmán, plays an innocent middle-class woman, pregnant by the lover she's alleged to have murdered, being incarcerated in a horrendous jail. Pain, corruption and ingrained inequity permeate his new movie, Carancho, in which Gusmán again stars as well as being executive producer. She plays Luján, a youngish unmarried doctor from the provinces, working long hours at a rundown Buenos Aires hospital. She supplements her income by doing night shifts on an ambulance that specialises in picking up victims of the accidents that contribute to the horrendous statistics mentioned earlier. Before we encounter her, we're introduced to Sosa, a man in his early 40s who is beaten and kicked in the gutter by a group of thugs. They appear to be giving him some punishment or warning for having got on the wrong side of their employers. Sosa is played by Ricardo Darín, who gave a riveting performance two years ago as a working-class cop turned investigative novelist in Juan José Campanella's masterly The Secret in their Eyes, winner of the 2010 Oscar for best foreign language film. In a beautifully staged sequence, Sosa and Luján meet in the sodium-vapour lighting that illuminates the lurid night streets of Buenos Aires. As she gets him to help with her latest patient, she has trouble identifying his role. Is he, as his battered, bleeding face suggests, another victim? Or is he, as his professional confidence implies, some kind of official? Actually, Sosa is a shady lawyer who has lost his licence to practise and is working, quite literally, as an ambulance chaser for the "Foundation", a crooked organisation posing as a charitable concern with links to the cops and officialdom. It supposedly mediates between insurance companies and accident victims, but in fact takes most of the money. Sosa is a "carancho", the slang term for a "vulture", someone cynically exploiting the sad innocents and conspiring with the greedy not-so-innocents involved in accidents. This area is not unfamiliar to Hollywood. In Sidney Lumet's The Verdict (an excellent legal drama scripted by David Mamet), Paul Newman gave one of his finest performances as a sleazy, ambulance-chasing shyster in Boston. In knockabout comedy Mother, Jugs & Speed, Bill Cosby, Harvey Keitel and Raquel Welch were competing private ambulance drivers, while in more sombre mood Nicolas Cage played a New York ambulance driver at the end of his tether in Scorsese's Bringing Out the Dead. It gradually becomes apparent, however, that Trapero's film is a noir thriller of a gritty, downbeat kind centring on a doomed love affair and using the system of exploiting insurance compensation as a metaphor for a corrupt, uncaring society. Two groups of montages establish the leading characters' situations. Sosa uses his legal wiles to lure a succession of vulnerable people into his web, persuading them that a painful "accident" should be converted into a profitable "incident". Luján, on the other hand, is drawn into the world of the badly injured patients she's trying to help and heal. Both are damaged in the process and attracted to each other in delicately handled off-duty scenes. Like Paul Newman's lawyer in The Verdict, Sosa seeks redemption by helping his clients, though things go wrong in a succession of unanticipated ways as he attempts to escape the slimy tentacles of the ruthless Foundation. Always there is that one last big job that will release him into freedom. Luján, on the other hand, needs moral and emotional support to sustain her through the trials of an impossibly demanding occupation and to save her from despair. Punishment of a physical and mental kind is never far away in a Trapero movie. As it's unavoidable, the test is whether you can find the stoicism and grace to confront and overcome it. His film is claustrophobic, largely set at night and in life's darker corners, and the atmosphere is as thick and rancid as something ejected by a garbage impactor. The film's plotting is at times ragged and muffled, though this might be intentional, a way of suggesting the endless ramifications of the endemic corruption. The performances, however, have depth and resonance. Can McG's films get any worse? Apparently so, writes Philip French 'Recessional' comedy Wanderlust is charmless, cliched and crude, writes Philip French Andreas Veiel casts an intelligent eye on the Baader-Meinhof story with this persuasive drama, writes Philip French 