Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen, including the high court ruling on whether parliament should get a vote on triggering article 50 
Andrew Sparrow 
17:32
 Here are the Guardian’s main stories on today’s article 50 court ruling This is the most important development in the Brexit story since the election of Theresa May as prime minister and easily the most encouraging day for those who backed remain since the referendum on June 23. I’ve posted vast amounts of commentary on this already, but here is what it means in six key points. 1 - The court ruling is much more definitive than anyone expected. (See, for example, David Allen Green at 4.10pm.) The government is appealing to the supreme court, but informed commentators seem to think it more likely than not that the government will lose again. 2 - Unless the government does win at the supreme court, parliament will get to legislate on invoking article 50. And that means a proper bill, passing through the Commons and the Lords, with MPs and peers getting the chance to amend it. Theresa May has been refusing to give parliament a vote on the terms of Brexit because, once power shifts from the hands of the executive to the legislature (see 8.49am), the prime minister loses some control. The key point about today is that MPs and peers have, for the first time, got a strong chance of shaping the start of the Brexit process. 3 - The chances of Brexit being overturned are still very minimal. It is just about possible to conceive how the UK could stay in the EU (parliament votes to insert a second referendum clause into the article 50 Brexit bill, and some economic catastrophe results in a sharp change in public opinion by 2018) but you would be unwise to bet on it. Most MPs and peers who voted remain accept that the result of the referendum should be honoured. 4 - But the chances of Brexit being “soft” not “hard” have increased significantly. There is a majority for a “soft” Brexit in parliament and, if there is a bill, it will now have the chance to exercise leverage. 5 - There is now a real possibility that Theresa May will not be able to trigger article 50 before the end of March. The government says it still intends to meet this deadline, but the need to legislate could lead to a delay. 6 - An early election, though by no means inevitable, now does look more likely than it did this time yesterday. That’s all from me for today. I had been intending to cover other stories, but I’m afraid this one took over. Thanks for the comments. Updated
17:03
 Henry McDonald The votes of Northern Ireland MPs in the House of Commons could prove critical if Theresa May and the government is forced to ask parliament to trigger article 50. All eight Democratic Unionist Party MPs are guaranteed to back Brexit in the Commons given that they were the only major political force in the Stormont Assembly to active back a leave vote in June’s referendum. However, the position of the two Ulster Unionist MPs - Fermanagh/South Tyrone’s Tom Elliott and Danny Kinahan in South Antrim - is interesting. In June UUP leader Mike Nesbitt called for a remain vote. The UUP has now switched position and said its MPs will back the government to allow for the referendum result to be implemented. The party will argue this is because the entire electorate of the UK has spoken in the referendum and it is their duty to back up that outcome in the Commons. The switch though may also be due to fears of being further outflanked by the DUP especially given a number of recent defections from the UUP to the Democratic Unionists. In essence the UUP is again moving to the right in order to slow down its decline vis a vis the DUP. All three SDLP MPs will definitely vote to block Brexit given that the party campaigned vigorously for remain and was involved in last week’s failed legal action in the Belfast High Court to declare Brexit null and void in Northern Ireland only. Sinn Fein will not vote in the Commons because it boycotts the parliament although the party will come under fire accused of failing to add to the Remain voices in the chamber that could scupper Brexit. Yet it is the votes of the unionist bloc that will prove far more critical if and when the referendum result is tested in the House of Commons. Expect more demands from DUP first Minister Arlene Foster for special treatment for Northern Ireland (guaranteed post-Brexit farming subsidies for Ulster agriculture for instance) in order to bolster the government’s numbers in a Brexit vote .... even one after a general election. 
17:03
 Since you’re here, we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading the Guardian than ever – but far fewer are paying for it, and advertising revenues are falling fast. So you can see why we need to ask for your help. The Guardian’s journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce. But we do it because we believe that independent reporting and plurality of voices matter. If everyone who reads our reporting helps to pay for it, our future would be much more secure. Support us with a monthly payment or a one-off contribution - Guardian HQ. 
17:00
 Here is Douglas Carswell, the Ukip MP, on the court ruling. Shocking judicial activism- these judges are politicians without accountability https://t.co/5sdFvWnD0I Remainers, aided and abetted by lawyers, seeking to tell electorate to sod off 
16:48
 A majority of voters now want Britain to remain in the European Union, according to a poll, the Press Association report. But there was little sign that the ultra-slim 51%-49% majority in favour of remain reflected a change of heart since the 52%-48% referendum vote to leave.  Just 3% of leave voters polled by BMG Research said they would now vote remain, while 4% of those who backed EU membership on June 23 said they would switch in the other direction.  The remain camp’s advantage came from voters who did not take part in the referendum, 46% of whom said they would now back EU membership, against 27% who would vote to leave.  BMG found that the Conservatives were ranked the best party to handle Brexit negotiations with the remaining EU, with the backing of 36% of voters, against 10% for Labour, 9% for Ukip and 2% each for Liberal Democrats and Greens.  Updated
16:42
 George Osborne, the Conservative former chancellor, has joined those saying parliament should now have a proper debate about what Brexit will entail. He told Sky News: The question is not who makes the decision on whether we’re leaving the European Union because the public have made that decision in the referendum. I think the sooner we get on to the substantive discussion in parliament with the government about the nature of our new relationship with Europe, how we’re going to trade with these key partners of ours like Germany and France, how businesses here in Manchester and across the country are going to have the certainty so that they can invest and hire people over the next couple of years - for me these are the key issues and I would be arguing for the closest possible trading and economic relationship with Europe, outside of the EU, because we’ve got to respect the referendum. 
16:34
 Here is Andrew Tyrie, the Conservative chair of the Commons Treasury committee (and a remain voter in June), on the court ruling. Whatever the supreme court decides, the government should be much more transparent about its objectives in the negotiations, in some detail, and the sooner the better. It should also ensure that parliament can scrutinise the objectives, and vote on them. There are many good reasons for this. Among several, it can enable the construction of broad-based public consent for the UK’s future relationship with the EU. The UK is leaving; a public debate is needed about where we want to arrive. Before taking off, it is always a good idea for the pilot to discuss with the passengers and crew where they might want to land. Second, clarity about the government’s objectives would enable a serious discussion with other Member States to get underway, prior to the triggering of article 50. And third, it can reduce the economic damage caused by uncertainty over the likely shape of the UK’s future relationship with the EU. It is the uncertainty about the terms of that relationship, far more than the additional time required to clarify the negotiating position, that carries the more significant cost. 
16:20
 Ladbrokes have cut the odds on a general election taking place next year. It’s now at 2/1. The BBC’s Jeremy Vine seems to agree. Surely there will now be a general election in 2017. #Brexit #highcourt Glen O’Hara, a history professor, is thinking along the same lines. So you're the PM. You can get bogged down in both Houses on A50 details, or you can win a landslide in a GE. What do you do? 
16:10
 Here is an article 50 court ruling reading list. The judgment looks, at early glance, to be almost appeal-proof. It was made unanimously by three experienced appeal judges, sitting exceptionally at first instance: they are the Lord Chief Justice, the Master of the Rolls and the leading public law judge at the court of appeal. It is reasoned and detailed. At one point, the court appears to hold that the government’s case was too weak to win on its own terms, regardless of the claimants’ case. Why did the government lose? It seems that the crucial issue is the impact on the rights of citizens. If the Article 50 notification is irrevocable then the argument is that these rights will be removed automatically in due course. This cannot be done, other than by an Act of Parliament. The government could have side-stepped this difficulty by not accepting that the notification was irrevocable (and many, including Lord Kerr who wrote Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, say a notification must be revocable). But it saw this legally sensible move as politically unacceptable. Looking at the judgment, the impression is that the government’s concession on this crucial point determined the outcome of the case. Imagine this. It is November 2018. The promised trade deals have failed to appear. Unemployment and inflation are on the rise. The public mood towards Brexit has turned ugly, and so have negotiations with our biggest and nearest trading partner. In that world, any rational MP would wish that, back in November 2016, she had left ajar the door to remaining in the EU. Why make the decision now, with modest evidence, if you have the opportunity to make it later with more? These points will be debated in the Commons and they must also be debated in the Lords. And, in practical terms, it is difficult to contemplate that these steps – drafting a Bill, debating it in the Commons, voting on amendments, placing it before the House of Lords and then addressing amendments introduced by the Upper Chamber in the Commons again – can sensibly be taken after the result of the Supreme Court appeal is known but before March. So, whatever else the decision means, unless the Supreme Court overturns the High Court’s decision, Theresa May’s March deadline will be ancient history. Will MPs and Lords vote to pass the bill? This will of course come down to politics. Both the Commons and Lords have a majority of members who argued for the UK to remain a member of the EU. But politically, they may not wish to vote against the decision of UK voters taken through the referendum, particularly as most constituencies outside the Scotland, Northern Ireland and the major cities voted against remaining in the EU. Nonetheless, they will wish to ensure that the decision to trigger Article 50 receives an appropriate degree of parliamentary scrutiny. Depending on how the bill is drafted – and it is likely to be very short – there may be moves to amend it to place conditions on the Government before it can trigger Article 50. These could take the form of timing or process requirements – for example, a requirement on the Government to provide Parliament with information about its negotiating position before triggering Article 50. Now, in case of an appeal of the High Court’s decision before the UKSC, in my opinion, the referral to the CJEU is legally unavoidable (I will not deal for now with arguments of judicial politics or pragmatic views on the UKSC’s likely course of action). Even if the parties do not challenge or even raise to the UKSC’s consideration the matter of the (ir)reversibility of and Article 50 notification, it is a logical given that the UKSC needs to take a stance (even if implicit) on this point in order to be able to rule on the case. If it quashes the High Court’s decision, it needs to clarify the points of law which the High Court would have gotten wrong--one of which concerns the irrevocability of an Art 50 notification. if it upholds the High Court’s decision, it is (implicitly) accepting the assumption that an Art 50 notification is irrevocable. Either way, the UKSC cannot escape a substantial (implicit) consideration of the interpretation of Article 50. In my view, this engages the UKSC’s obligation to request a preliminary ruling from the CJEU under Article 267(3) TFEU and not doing so triggers a risk of infringement of EU law by the UK due to the acts (or omission, in this case) of its highest court. I don’t really remember the Poll Tax riots toward the tail end of Thatcher’s government. I mean, I remember seeing stories about it on the news, but since I was only eight years old the political ramifications of what I was seeing rather eluded me. But despite my hazy memory, I think it is safe to say were MPs (and it would have to include many Labour MPs representing constituencies which voted to leave the EU) to vote against giving the government authority to invoke Article 50, the resulting conflagration would make the Poll Tax riots look like a summer picnic on Hampstead Heath. It is spectacularly delicious that leading Brexiteers are arguing that the High Court today got it wrong today in ruling that we cannot leave the EU without the assent of Parliament - in that almost their entire campaign to get us out of the EU was that British courts and Westminster must be sovereign, and no longer subjugated to Brussels. The High Court’s decision is exemplary in its clarity and reasoning. Anyone interested in a tutorial on the UK constitution should read the first 56 paragraphs. The legal challenge was not supposed to be a major obstacle for the government. All it needed to assert and defend were the UK’s own constitutional requirements. In failing to understand the constitution of its own country, the government was taught an embarrassing lesson by the High Court on the Strand.  
15:59
 Here is the Guardian’s Politics Weekly podcast, with Heather Stewart, Jonathan Freedland, Hadley Freeman and Martin Kettle discussing the American elections and today’s article 50 court ruling. 
15:53
 Here is some complicated reasoning from the Times’ Sam Coates. Where does today's Article 50 ruling leave Theresa May's election decision? Some points to argue over: pic.twitter.com/hL81kw78xv 
15:23
 Dominic Grieve, the Conservative former attorney general, has also been speaking to Sky News. Here are the key points he made.  At the end of the day you can get primary legislation through parliament quite quickly. It has been known to be done in 48 hours, but that’s as an emergency. But he said this “might delay slightly” the triggering of article 50. It is worth bearing in mind that the government isn’t ready to trigger article 50 itself at the moment at all because it doesn’t really know at the moment what it is going to do next. There is a hugely well-established principle in this country that laws and statutes conferring rights on people passed by parliament cannot be removed without parliament voting to do it. That is what this question is about. 
15:00
 Today's High Court #Brexit ruling summed up in a paragraph by @FT pic.twitter.com/R1zazVi0fv 
14:57
 David Davis, the Brexit secretary, has been giving a statement about the article 50 ruling to broadcasters. Here are the key points. 
14:40
 Here is the official Downing Street statement on the article 50 ruling. A spokesperson said: The government is disappointed by the court’s judgment. The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by act of parliament. And the government is determined to respect the result of the referendum. We will appeal this judgment. 
14:35
 MailOnline made its views on the three judges responsible for the article 50 ruling quite clear in this headline earlier (which has since been amended.) I thought Britain voted to leave the EU, not to set the clocks back to 1950: @stephenkb on that Mail headline https://t.co/jFBRjMtatz pic.twitter.com/jNzDttYlR9 In an article for the New Statesman, Stephen Bush challenges liberal Brexiteers to speak out about views like this.  Updated
14:18
 Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister, has put out a fresh statement about the article 50 ruling. She says the UK government should accept it and shelve its appeal. She said: The high court’s judgment is not a surprise to anyone who has been following this case, and the UK government should now accept this decision rather than take it to the UK supreme court. That the UK government is now in the position where the court has ruled against it and is insisting that parliament must vote before article 50 can be triggered underlines the chaos and confusion at the heart of the Tories’ handling of Brexit. Let’s be clear – the prime minister has not tried to avoid parliament because of constitutional principles but because any vote in parliament would expose the complete lack of a plan for what Brexit means. In whatever eventually comes forward from the UK government to parliament, SNP MPs will not vote in any way that would undermine Scotland’s interests. 