 At least one set of radar was working at The Oval yesterday even it did not belong to Worcestershire's bowlers. Fifteen minutes after lunch the ground staff, having taken their lead from the Met Office, swung into action and battened down the hatches like seamen preparing a liner for foul weather. In their minds, even with only 38 overs gone, that was it for the day. The umpires came to the same conclusion almost three hours later leaving Scott Newman undefeated on 65 after passing fifty for the fifth time in first-class matches this season, Jon Batty within six of his third half-century and the Surrey batting line-up unmarked and unworried, unless you count two close shaves when direct hits would have run out both openers. Worcestershire will also have settled for a fresh start today after their attack wasted what will probably be the best bowling conditions of the match. Between them Zaheer Khan, who came into the game with 19 wickets from two championship starts this season and Kabir Ali, bowled far too many wasted deliveries. Zaheer, who has 42 Test caps for India and a reputation for accuracy, was having one of those days when his left-arm delivered the ball across the the right-handed Batty and on towards first slip without bothering the batsman. Kabir's problem was swing - too much of it. The ball started to bend soon after leaving his hand, giving the batsmen time to adjust and within 30 minutes the Worcestershire director of cricket Steve Rhodes had scurried around the boundary for words with his men. Matt Mason replaced Zaheer with Surrey skipping along at better than four an over, Batty cutting and pulling, and Newman clipping the ball off his toes. Kabir was allowed three more overs before he gave way and Zaheer tried from the Vauxhall end. By then Mason had begun to slow the Surrey run rate and four successive overs stuck on 57 resulted in the display of impatience by Batty which could have seen him out for 20 had Kabir hit the stumps. The Australian's seven overs for 12 runs was the tidiest spell of the morning. However, there was little to disturb either batsmen until the first flecks of rain gave their stage to the ground staff. 