 It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which was published earlier in the day. There's also a new format this week, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previous Best iPhone and iPad apps posts). Lady Gaga's new album is finally out, along with its companion app for smartphones and tablets. Contrary to expectations, you don't get to monkey around with ARTPOP's songs within the app. Instead, you can listen to them (if you've already bought them) while also creating and sharing animated GIFs from the ArtHaus section. There's the promise of streaming DJ sets and videos to come ... next year. Read a fuller hands-on here.iPhone / iPad Outfit7's Talking Friends apps – including two previous Talking Tom Cat apps – have been downloaded more than 1.2bn times, and are still used by 170m monthly active users. They're huge, especially among kids. This latest app adds more features: it turns Talking Tom into a proper virtual pet who has to be fed, entertained and even taken to the loo. Whether parents will be as impressed by the in-app store selling gold coins for up to £69.99 at a time remains to be seen.iPhone / iPad This music creation app styles itself as "colourful and FREAKING FUN" which, excitable capitals aside, is about right. It's part beatbox and part sampler, with a beautifully simple interface to record and play sounds. As with other apps of this type, where it falls between novelty toy and serious music-making tool depends entirely on your skills and persistence.iPhone It's a big week for interesting new music apps on iOS, with this the brand new app from Pitchfork, the king of the music blogs. The app isn't about your daily dose of Pitchfork's news and reviews, though: it's a weekly collection of the "best and most relevant material" from the site in a sleek magazine app – good for reading at leisure rather than in short bursts.iPhone / iPad This children's app takes a cutlass to the notion that pirates and princesses should never meet. It's a pop-up storybook app about Isabel, a princess who gets mixed up with a pirate crew for an adventure on the high seas. It's a mixture of storytelling and mini-games that will make your kids smile.iPhone / iPad More music, this time from Canadian band Metric, working with the design studio responsible for Bjork's Biophilia app a couple of years ago. Unlike ARTPOP, this is very much about interacting with the music – specifically 11 songs from Metric's latest album, which can be remixed to your heart's content using a stylishly-designed collection of sequencers.iPhone / iPad Not a typo: that really is the price of this cookbook app from Inkling. And I was being snarky about the cost on Twitter only to find people politely pointing out that £54.99 might be good value, given that the hardback book goes for £395. So yes, a bargain (of sorts) offering 416 recipes with text, photo and video instructions including "the right way to use a blowtorch on your steaks".iPhone / iPad Disney has turned a bunch of its movies into Storybook Deluxe apps, adding games and creativity sections to their familiar storylines. Frozen is the latest film to get the treatment, with children able to record their own voice narration, turn their device around to flip between the two characters' perspectives, and draw snowy scenes to show to parents and friends.iPhone / iPad Google, Apple or Nokia's maps might get you to a destination, but they're not quite as good for telling you what's inside it. That's what MApp is trying to do, providing maps for a range of British airports, museums, shopping centres and other indoor locations, helping you navigate around them. It stands to reason that one day the big beasts of the mobile mapping world will do this too, but for now this is really useful.iPhone / iPad You'll want to remember where you were when you first heard that Justin Bieber had invested in an app for taking and sharing selfie shots. Possibly. Yes, this Bieber-backed application is all about taking shots of me (well, you) and sharing them, along with private messaging features. The company behind it, Rock Live, is also taking a stand against cyberbullying, aiming for a service without negativity. Good luck!iPhone Another music app, this one focused on a famous trip that John Lennon took to Bermuda in 1980 while writing the Double Fantasy album with Yoko Ono. The app – endorsed by Ono herself – offers a mixture of demos, audio recordings and photos. One very much for the fans, it's fair to say, but an interesting slice of music history.iPhone / iPad And just to finish off, another music app! This one's for children though: a Christmas collection of songs from artists including Indigo Girls, KT Tunstall and Emmy the Great & Tim Wheeler, which kids can play along to with virtual instruments, while reading (well, singing ideally) the lyrics.iPad The ability to play Football Manager in idle moments on smartphones and tablets – rather than just in several-hour sessions on computers – may well have saved a few marriages in the last couple of years. The latest version adds more depth, a redesigned user interface, the ability to create your own club (yes, with you as the Pele-meets-Messi-meets-Maradona star striker), and the ability to manage in more than one country. Engrossing, as ever.iPhone / iPad It's fair to say the developers of Oceanhorn have played a lot of Nintendo's Zelda games down the years: this is heavily inspired by that series. That said, they've done a good job recreating its charms for iOS: I'm a fair way in, and already captivated by the mix of puzzles, exploration and monster battles. The music is worth a nod too: lush and atmospheric.iPhone / iPad Gameloft's GT Racing returns for its second drive, with a more simulation-style take on the racing genre – a mobile equivalent to Gran Turismo. That means 67 licensed cars, 13 tracks to drive them on, and more than 1,400 events to complete, with the promise of 28 more challenges a week to keep the game fresh in the coming months. The handling and pace feel good, and online multiplayer is great fun too.iPhone / iPad If you've got an iPhone 5s or one of the new iPads, and are looking for a game to show off its A7 processor, this comes a close second to Infinity Blade III. It's a marvellous-looking action-shooter with robots and guns galore, with eye-popping set-piece battles. Its combination of paid download and in-app purchases for credits mirrors Infinity Blade too.iPhone / iPad "The beloved world of Monopoly meets the friendly, addictive fun of bingo" may be a phrase to strike fear into anyone's heart, especially when it relates to a freemium mobile game making its money from in-app purchases. Has EA ruined Monopoly? At first look, no: this is an interesting attempt to blend the two very different games, although whether it appeals to fans of either remains to be seen.iPhone / iPad Genuinely my favourite game of the week, if distinctly niche. Hipster CEO puts you in charge of a tech startup charged with taking your company from bedroom to global domination (or, more accurately, from bedroom to abject failure). And while it sounds flippant, there's a lot of depth here. Not to mention fun.iPhone Not a game, but the app of the official book for GTA V, with guides to the various missions, tips on how to make the most out of the console game's three characters, information on the different hobbies and pastimes you can try, and a comprehensive map with all the game's collectibles. Having spent a few weeks playing GTA V already with GameFaqs constantly to hand in my iPad browser, this is going to come in handy.iPad Finally, a mobile conversion of a popular Flash game on the web, with a fantasy setting that sees you building an army and waging war on all manner of virtual enemies. Early indications are that it's addictive, but also that there's some real depth to the gameplay. Also good: the developers have made a point of making in-app purchases not used for currency: so your success is based on skill, not spending. iPhone / iPad That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above by posting a comment. 