Australia Post believes it has stemmed the losses in its traditional mail business after returning to profit despite a record decline in the number of letters being posted. Growth in its parcels business and changes to its mail service helped Australia Post achieve a $36m net profit in 2015-16, a big turnaround from its first full-year loss in more than 30 years of $222m. The Australia Post managing director, Ahmed Fahour, said the return to the black showed it was on a more sustainable path for further growth. “Changes to the letters business introduced earlier this year were an important factor in the group returning to profitability,” Fahour said on Friday. The letters business remains in structural decline as companies and people post fewer letters in the digital age, but Fahour said Australia Post had now stemmed its losses in letters. “We have managed to stabilise the rate of decline in our letters business,” he said. The national postal service expects its cumulative losses from letters to be $1.5bn over the next five years, a significant reduction from the original $5bn forecast before its reforms. The introduction of a two-speed letter service and an increase in stamp prices for basic postage and for business and government customers have helped reduce the losses in the traditional “snail mail” business. The postal business still had a significant loss of $138m in 2015-16, but it was well below the previous year’s $381m loss. The volume of snail mail has almost halved over the past eight years with the shift to digital, and it fell by a record 9.7% in 2015-16. Fahour said about 1% to 2% of the volume decline could be attributed to higher stamp prices, but most of it was because of Australians opting for digital substitutes. The parcels business continued to grow, with profit rising 8.2% to $314m. “The parcels business has performed well despite increased competition from overseas players,” Fahour said. Australia Post was focused on redeploying workers as it shifted resources from the declining letters business into the fast-growing parcels and online businesses, he said. It expects to deliver a $200m dividend to its owner, the federal government. 