 Perhaps the most harrowing part for Manchester City amid all the regrets and raw disappointment is the way large parts of this game seemed to pass them by. Manuel Pellegrini’s team came up short in most areas but it was their lack of punch, their blandness in attack and the way that key players failed them on the big occasion that were the most startling. There is no shame to lose to Real Madrid and, ultimately, it was a goal of considerable fortune, deflected into his own net by Fernando, that means San Siro will be full of Madridistas on 28 May. Yet City should not push the hard-luck line too much when they could not even muster a shot on target. They managed only one in the first leg, a 91st-minute free-kick, and it was perplexing to see a team normally renowned for attacking flair opting for the pea-shooter as their form of artillery. Pellegrini argued afterwards that his team had not deserved to lose but they certainly did not do enough to win on a strangely subdued night for Sergio Agüero, Kevin De Bruyne and their other attacking players. Agüero did not manage a single shot on target for the fifth Champions League tie in a row. Yaya Touré had the excuse that he was not fully fit, lasting only an hour, but nobody should be too surprised by the inability of Jesús Navas to leave a favourable impression on a big match. The late onslaught from Pellegrini’s team that might have been anticipated never materialised and, however much their departing manager tried to dress it up, the harsh reality was that City left the party in a way that should never be regarded as satisfactory, quietly closing the door behind themselves. Instead Milan can brace itself for an all-Madrid final, just as it was at Lisbon in 2014, and it was an awkward moment afterwards when Pellegrini said he did not believe that Zinedine Zidane’s team had accumulated 15 attempts at goal, even though it was on the official Uefa statistics sheet and did not seem unreasonable in the slightest. For City, there was the moment towards the end of the first half when Fernandinho’s shot skimmed off a post and, late on, a long-range shot from Agüero that landed on the roof of the net. Those apart, however, the most expensively assembled team in English football rarely attacked with real conviction. Nor could it be said they had lost to one of the more formidable Real teams. Luka Modric was outstanding in the home side’s midfield but Cristiano Ronaldo did not look entirely recovered from a hamstring injury. Zidane’s side are certainly not as devastating as the days when he was in the team rather than on the touchline, but City reacted badly to losing Vincent Kompany to his unending injury issues and it took them far too long to shake their heads clear. The giant banner unveiled before kickoff on the fondo sur, where Madrid’s most boisterous fans congregate, read: “Juntos No Hay Imposibles” (translation: “Together Nothing is Impossible”). Pellegrini had said something similar beforehand about his own team but what he had not anticipated was that Kompany’s involvement would last only 10 minutes. Kompany is a fine captain – at least when his body allows – but his injuries are becoming as synonymous with the modern-day City as inflatable bananas were with the old one. In total, there have been 33 in his seven and a half years at City and the latest one came with the worst timing of all. All the same, it was strange to see the way City allowed that early setback to disrupt their rhythm. They were punished in the 20th minute when Dani Carvajal advanced from his full-back position and Gareth Bale was in space, waiting for the pass. Cutting in from the right, Bale’s intention was to clip a cross to the far post but the ball took a nick off Fernando and that deflection was decisive. The ball flicked over Hart, spinning beneath the point of crossbar and post, and though Bale was announced as the scorer Uefa later ruled it should be classified as an own goal. It was desperately unlucky for City but, equally, Pellegrini must have been startled by his team’s attempts to rescue themselves. An away goal would have dramatically changed the complexion of the night and as long as that was possible, that knowledge was never far from the minds of the home crowd. Yet there was never a period of the game when City put their hosts under sustained pressure. David Silva’s absence always affects the team’s cohesion but De Bruyne ought to have done more to make up for the Spaniard’s absence. Navas was always on the edges of the game – a place he has come to know far too well – while Touré was off the pace during his hour on the pitch. Afterwards, a Spanish journalist asked Zidane if he agreed that Touré had looked as old as his shirt number – 42 Modric had a chance to make it 2-0 early in the second half but, perhaps suspecting he was offside, could not apply the necessary finish. Joe Hart kept out Ronaldo with a couple of saves and Bale turned a header against a post from a second-half corner. Pellegrini brought on Raheem Sterling and Kelechi Iheanacho but the game drifted to its finale without any real sense that City might conjure up some late drama. 