American Apparel’s UK business is likely to be closed after the fashion retailer appointed administrators on Tuesday. The Los Angeles-based company, which makes all its clothes in the US, has endured a difficult period since the departure of its controversial founder Dov Charney in 2014. The parent company filed for Chapter 11, the US version of administration, just over a year ago and is up for sale after its chief executive, Paula Schneider, stepped down in September. The group’s 13 UK stores and some other European operations are not part of the US sale and are therefore likely to be wound down, according to joint administrators Jim Tucker and Richard Beard of KPMG. Tucker said American Apparel’s US parent had been “experiencing strong retail headwinds” that had led to it halting product shipments to the UK, where the brand was also experiencing trading difficulties. Tucker said: “The 13 UK stores are well stocked and will continue to trade as usual in the lead-up to the peak Christmas trading period. While the UK business is not part of the US sale, a number of the UK stores are in prime high street locations, and we will also aim to sell individual stores following the Christmas trading peak.” Charney launched American Apparel while at university in 1989, combining sexy, fashionable clothing with ethical production. The brand expanded to more than 200 stores in more than 20 countries but attracted notoriety for racy advertising often featuring young female staff members. He later faced a string of increasingly lurid allegations, undermining the company’s image. He was alleged to have masturbated in the presence of a female journalist and reportedly sent explicit texts to employees. As changing fashion trends and the financial crisis made young shoppers less keen to pay £30 for one of Charney’s plain T-shirts, sales slumped and debts mounted. American Apparel’s board fired Charney as chairman in June 2014 and sacked him as chief executive the following December. He has since attempted to buy back the brand. 