 Justine Henin, the best player of her generation not to have won Wimbledon, moved a hugely significant step closer to the title with a physically and emotionally demanding 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 victory over the two-times champion Serena Williams on the Centre Court yesterday evening. Henin has twice been beaten in the final, losing to Amélie Mauresmo last year and to Venus Williams in 2001. Now her time may have come. The four-times French Open champion has often suffered from post-Roland Garros fatigue at the All England Club and this year she crossed the Channel after her third successive win in Paris and went on to secure the Eastbourne title. Altogether, on clay and grass, she has an unbeaten run of 16 matches and although she wobbled in the second set, and at 5-1 in the third, she otherwise had the edge, notably with her top-spin backhand, which is one of the modern game's great weapons. Henin will next play this Wimbledon's surprise package, Marion Bartoli, who looks like she begins her day with a good helping of cassoulet. Henin defeated the Frenchwoman 6-1, 6-3 in the semi-finals at Eastbourne and would appear to be far too powerful. "On paper I'm going to be the favourite but it's going to be another kind of story on the court," she said. The match against Serena Williams was always likely to be the one to decide the outcome of the title, for currently they are the best two players in the world. They have great respect for each other, despite some spats in the past, notably at Roland Garros, but in their most recent meeting prior to yesterday's Henin comfortably beat Williams to reach the semi-finals of this year's French Open, the American putting in a lacklustre and inconsequential performance. "I don't think I've ever played so badly in the quarter-finals of a slam," Williams said. "I'm always saying I want to peak at the right times but I didn't have any peaks today. There was no comparison with Australia." Williams, who had fallen to No81 in the world when she blasted back to win the Australian Open title in January, her eighth major, began altogether more sharply this time, even though she was swathed in strapping to her left leg and her left wrist and thumb, the residue of her narrow, pain-racked escape against Daniela Hantuchova in the fourth round. The argument against Henin claiming the title - she has won all the other three slams - is that she has often been slightly overpowered on the quicker surface. Indeed there were times when Williams' raking forehand sped beyond her reach, but the Belgian world No1 is the best defensive player in the top 10, an attribute that has made her virtually unbeatable on clay. She invariably forces her opponent into one extra shot. "I thought she played some of her best tennis," said Williams. A gusty wind made it tricky for both players, Henin missing one forehand completely when the ball virtually stopped dead. The telling first break came in the ninth game, Henin somehow returning a Williams serve at full stretch and then producing a fabulous lob. Ideally these two should not have been meeting at such a relatively early stage of the tournament but because both Williams sisters limit their participation on the WTA tour their rankings and seedings no longer reflect their actual ability. Both have always been and steadfastly remain the most viciously competitive of street fighters when they smell the chance of a major title, and Henin may yet find herself up against Venus in the final. Serena was obviously hampered by her injuries, more by the strapping on her wrist, which affected her backhand, yet she raised the tempo in the second set, twice crushing the Henin serve. It was impossible to be certain how the deciding set might evolve.  In fact it was Henin, her eyes flashing across to her long-time coach and mentor Carlos Rodríguez, who called the tune, and it was Richard Williams, Serena's father, who began to display the greater agitation as he tried to urge his daughter further forward. It was to no avail. Henin's mixture of defence, power and occasional feather-light touch always gave her the decisive edge, and although nerves kicked in as she rushed her service game at 5-1, and then missed an easy volley on her first match point, she was always the better player on the day. 