UK PM’s meeting with German chancellor covers potential deals with African countries to stem migration into Europe  
Philip Oltermann in Berlin 
 Theresa May and Angela Merkel have discussed the possibility of agreeing deals with African countries to stem migration into Europe following the model of the EU-Turkey refugee deal, as well as the importance of rolling over sanctions against Russia in relation to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. “We will support the EU action to work in source countries to deal with the root causes of migration,” the British prime minister said. Her attempt at getting in a few words on Brexit was rebuffed before the meeting by the German chancellor, who said no further detailed discussions could be held until the UK formally submitted its application to exit the trade bloc by triggering article 50. “We won’t be able to talk about Britain’s exit from the European Union because the prime minister has said she will make the application for Britain to leave in accordance with article 50 by the end of March,” Merkel said. “We accept that and wait for that application.” May said she would try to make Brexit a smooth and orderly process. “Our work is on track. We do stand ready to trigger article 50 by the end of March 2017,” she said. The prime minister also implied that she would raise the possibility of sanctions against Russia in relation to bombings in Syria, saying there was “a need to keep up the pressure against Russia, including the possibility of sanctions on those who breach international humanitarian law”. Earlier, Merkel had said Russian sanctions had only been discussed in relation to Ukraine, not Syria. The one-to-one meeting in Berlin came after Barack Obama used his last get-together with European leaders as US president to urge them to work with his successor, Donald Trump, and consider further steps to solve the crises in Syria and eastern Ukraine. Following lengthy talks with Merkel on Wednesday and Thursday, Obama and the leaders of Britain, France, Italy and Spain discussed the humanitarian situation in Aleppo and the need to keep working together as part of multilateral bodies such as Nato and to press ahead with the transatlantic agenda, the White House said in a statement. Trump said during his presidential campaign that if Russia attacked a Nato member, he would consider whether the targeted country had met its defence commitments before providing military aid. The leaders were also expected to talk about the threat posed by the dispersal of seasoned Isis fighters, who are being pushed out of Iraq and Syria by coalition attacks and could move to other countries in Africa or the Middle East or return to Europe. The issue of the movement of Isis fighters was raised at the UN general assembly meeting in September and was discussed again. “As we close down Daesh’s areas of operation in one part of the world we need to be mindful of the fact that they may regroup in other parts and how we set about tackling that,” a Downing Street spokesperson said. With the last leg of his farewell tour taking him to Berlin, Obama had made clear that if there had been a “special relationship” between the US and a European country during his eight years in office, it had not been with Britain but with Germany.  Including an intense, three-hour dinner on Wednesday and a lengthy press conference on Thursday in which Obama praised Merkel as “the only figure left” among his allies, the events of the last days have emphasised a symbolic passing of the baton.  As if to underline his point even further, the US president was scheduled to head back across the Atlantic barely two-and-a-half hours after meeting May and other European leaders. Obama’s last official visit to Europe has been infused with nostalgia, with the American and German leaders at times struggling to hide their concerns over a power shift in global politics. Obama said Trump as president was unlikely to “follow exactly our blueprint or our approach”, though he said he was hopeful that his successor would pursue constructive policies that defend democratic values and the rule of law. He said Trump should not “simply take a realpolitik approach and suggest … we just cut some deals with Russia – even if it hurts people or violates international norms or leaves smaller countries vulnerable or creates long-term problems in regions like Syria”. Asked whether ongoing sanctions on Russia would be discussed in Berlin, the Downing Street spokesman said: “Clearly we will seek agreement to maintain the Ukraine-related sanctions until such time as we see the Minsk agreement implemented. “Obviously, we will expect to see the Quint leaders united in the need to keep up pressure on the Syrian regime and their influencers to stop the actions that are taking place there.” Speaking after the Friday meetings, Merkel said she felt a duty to serve her country and Europe, adding further fuel to rampant speculation that she will seek a fourth term as chancellor. Asked how she saw her short- and long-term responsibilities, Merkel downplayed descriptions of herself as the last great defender of western values following Trump’s election, telling reporters: “One person alone can never solve everything.” Instead, she vowed to “perform [her] task as German chancellor, which on the one hand is to serve the people of Germany but it also includes working for the cohesion and success of Europe”. Merkel is scheduled to hold a news conference late on Sunday after meeting senior members of her party. 