• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode seven, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm. “You know what’s going to happen,” said Negan. “It’s going to be hard to watch.” He was addressing the assembled Saviors in their former factory compound as he prepared to apply a red-hot iron from the furnace to Mark’s face as punishment for some infraction. But he could have been talking to us. We know bad stuff is going to go down – Michonne will behead that walker, Negan will brand someone’s face – but however hard it is to look, it’s harder still to look away. Indeed, the paradoxical and even degrading fact for us about this season is that its most captivating episodes (the brutal premiere in particular) have been the hardest to watch. What made this episode so compelling, though, was that so often we didn’t know what was going to happen. What was Jesus going to do when he came down off the roof of Negan’s truck? What was Spencer plotting against Rick in the woods? What did Rick and Aaron hope to seize from the tooled-up hermit? Was the single bullet Eugene has made for Rosita going to be enough to kill Negan? What was Michonne planning to do when she arrived at the Savior’s compound? What might Negan do to baby Judith? Answers on a postcard please. Mostly, though, we were in suspense over what Negan would do to Carl for machine-gunning two of his men. “You’re smart, kid,” he told Carl. “What do you think I should do with you. Kill you? Iron your face? Chop off your arm?” Carl, who had removed his patch to show the hole where his eye once was, stared Negan down with his other eye and said, coolly: “I think you should jump out of the window to stop giving me the trouble of killing you.” Negan retorted with his best grin – he loved the kid’s moxy. It’s nice to have Negan back. He makes this season pop, even when he says things that should make us cringe. Or – worse – because he says them. “I am not going to have time to screw any of my wives today,” he said near the start of this episode, realising he had a busy day ahead. A beat. “I mean, maybe one.” Then he showed off his harem. “You’re going to want to look at their titties,” he said in one of many slimy asides to Carl. “It’s cool. I don’t mind. They don’t mind. Knock yourself out.”  Whatever you need to tell yourself, you misogynistic nutjob. Among the captive wives was Amber, in tears over the face-ironing her boyfriend Mark was about to endure for sleeping with her. “I love you,” she told Negan unconvincingly, hoping he might decide not to maim her boyfriend and, ideally, not harm her either. Negan, at least, decided not to do the latter. “You see?” Negan said to another of his wives, Sherry. “I wasn’t hard on her, though” – he added with a priapic leer that united sexual and violent boasting in one dirty double entendre – “I’m very hard in general.” “You’re an asshole,” Sherry, with good reason, told him. Negan grinned and replied: “I know. And the messed up thing is you like me anyway.” This sort of exchange gets to the heart of how Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan has captured the wandering hearts of certain women with his sleazy allure, if not to what Sherry really feels about him.  Carl had got into the Savior’s compound in the back of the truck carrying bounty from vassal compounds like Hilltop and Alexandria. Jesus, who like Carl nurtures a wish to terminate Negan, had jumped out of the truck moments before – but not before he cut the bottom out of a box containing the best of the haul (a case of whisky) so it shattered when one of the henchmen tried to pick it up.  Once the truck pulled up, Carl started shooting. Two of Negan’s goons died, then he threatened to off their leader. “Drop your weapons. I only want Negan. He killed my friend. Nobody else needs to die.” Negan deflated Carl’s threat with banter: “You are adorable!” he patronised. “Did you pick that gun because it makes you look cool? You totally did!” And then Negan’s lackey, Dwight, sideswiped Carl, disarmed and subdued him.  What now for Carl? Negan repeatedly insisted he must be punished. But how? After Negan invited Carl back to his quarters and demanded the boy remove his eye patch, he piled on the humiliation.  He asked after the boy’s mother and Carl was obliged to relate how he had killed her before she became a walker. Negan then insisted he sing a song. As Carl weedily sang You Are My Sunshine, Negan tried a few practice strokes with Lucille, his barbed-wire wrapped baseball bat. Is this how Carl would be punished? Perhaps. But not for now.  The episode cut from Negan and Carl to other intriguing subplots. “Hating somebody – is that a sin?” Spencer asked Father Gabriel on a scavenging trip from Alexandria. “No. Well, not necessarily,” said the priest. “Thoughts are just thoughts – it’s actions that matter in the end.” Really? I’d like a second opinion, but no matter: Spencer was clearly planning to put his hateful thoughts for Rick into action, probably by attempting to kill the new leader of Alexandria, in part to honour the memory of its old leader, his mother.  The episode also cut to Michonne who had set up a roadblock of walker corpses to ambush one of Negan’s lickspittles and force her to drive her to the Savior compound where, fingers crossed, she will put her katana to work.   We also cut to Rosita and Eugene. The former, at least, was still bent on avenging her dead ex, Abraham. Only one problem: Eugene isn’t sure he should make her a bullet fit for purpose even though he promised he would. “You said yes!” complained Rosita. “You’re right. I said yes,” replied Eugene before getting, as is his wont, verbose. “It was peachy for the moment. In the intervening hours I have been taking a deep dive into other options and contingencies trying out any iteration in which charging into this enterprise makes any sense.” He had a point – one bullet, all those Saviors loyal to Negan. What are the odds of that plan working? And yet, towards the end, Rosita loaded her gun with the bullet he had made for her.  We also cut to Rick and Aaron. I’m not quite sure what they’re up to, but the safe money says their aim is to take Negan down and destroy the Saviors. The noose, you might think, is tightening for Negan what with Michonne, Rosita, Rick, Aaron, Jesus and Carl all seemingly plotting to murder him.  But then Negan wrongfooted everybody (with the possible exception of Jesus, who is a mystery wrapped in a riddle wrapped in a full-length leather coat). He left the Savior’s compound. He insisted that Carl drive him back to Alexandria. With Jesus, unseen, on the roof. Before they headed off, Daryl found his voice and used it to threaten Negan. “If you do anything to the kid…” It sounded like an empty threat, given how seemingly enfeebled Daryl has become during his incarceration with the Saviors. But maybe I’m wrong: near the end, someone slipped a note under his cell door. “Go now” said the note, probably written by Sherry. Perhaps, I like to imagine, Daryl will escape the Saviors, come across that crossbow Spencer found with the walker in the woods, and take out the Savior trash, starting with Negan. I wouldn’t bank on that happening though.  Once at Alexandria, Negan found lots of his vassals – Rick, Aaron, Michonne, Rosita, Eugene – were no longer there. So he made himself comfortable to await their return. Since he had plenty of time on his hands, he made an indecent proposal to Olivia. “I think it would be enjoyable to screw your brains out. I mean, if you’re agreeable to it.” Olivia, understandably if dangerously, slapped him. Negan, as ever responding to an attack with spirit, replied: “I’m 50% more into you now.” At the end, Negan settled on Rick’s porch in the lovely evening, dandling Judith, the daughter of Rick’s dead wife and Carl’s half sister. Olivia had placed some fresh lemonade in a jug with some glasses on the table. It was a parody of domestic bliss. And then Negan, as he does, shifted the mood from suburban idyll to ring of hell: “Maybe it’s stupid of me to keep your dad alive,” he told Carl. “Maybe I should bury you both in the flowerbeds. And I could just settle in the suburbs.”  Maybe that’s what’ll happen. Or maybe Carl is going to do him in before any of the other Alexandrians sharpening their knives get to act on their wishes. Despite what Negan says, we don’t really know what’s going to happen. “It’s like talking to a birthday present. You gotta take that crap off your face. I gotta see what grandma got me.” Negan asking Carl to remove his eye patch. “Christ! That is disgusting. No wonder you cover that up. Have you looked in the mirror? That is gross as hell. I can see your socket … I wanna touch it. Can I touch it?” Negan after Carl removes the eye patch. “Lucille loves being sung to. It’s about the only thing she loves more than bashing in brains. Weird huh?” Negan explaining to Carl his baseball bat’s favourite things. “We bring civilisation back to this world. We are the Saviors, but we can’t do that without rules. Rules are what make it all work.” Negan explaining to the Saviors why he is going to iron Mark’s face. “Some crazy shit, huh? You probably think I’m a lunatic.” Negan’s aside to Carl after ironing Mark’s face. 