We hear from readers attending Corbyn rallies across the UK as the Labour leader seeks re-election 
Guardian readers and 
James Walsh 
 Corbyn supporters are optimistic that well-attended rallies across the country will build towards electoral success for Labour, according to a Guardian reader call-out. Steph Dickinson, 26, a receptionist from Liverpool, went along to the Liverpool rally with her mother, and felt the thousands in attendance put paid idea that Corbyn only has electoral appeal to - as she put it - “the middle class Islington set”. Jeremy Corbyn addresses thousands of supporters at his Liverpool rally at St George's Hall. Sent via Guardian Witness  By DrDumDum   2 August 2016, 13:50  “I juggle several zero hours contracts in order to stay afloat - we’re core voters from a traditionally Labour family.  “We are not thugs, or cult members, or poor brainwashed saddos. We’re just ordinary people who are tired of being told we must settle for a party who looks to Nuneaton and the other swing seats to see if they think we’re worthy of the benefits some rely on, or of not being deported, or of the right to - god forbid - have a spare bedroom.” With Labour continuing to fall behind Theresa May’s Conservatives in the polls, the mood from readers was that four years was enough time to build a broad coalition of supporters, members and campaigners to spread the word that Labour offers a distinct alternative to the status quo. “I know a big rally doesn’t necessarily translate to electability, but then neither does a small rally. Surely a big rally is better than a small one,” said Adam McNamara, also in Liverpool. “Labour can win in 2020 under Corbyn. There is now a massive membership base to be mobilised towards this end, and rallies like the ones we’ve seen prove that there is the appetite for getting out and doing something,” added Dickinson. We also heard from readers who challenged the assumption that Corbyn was, in the words of one respondent, “preaching to the converted”. “I expected the usual crowd of trade unionists and ‘lefties’, said Dave Langcaster, a college lecturer from Hull. “But the crowd seemed to be from all walks of life.” On the question of how to translate Corbyn’s popularity with members to wider electoral success, readers were confident that the current approach would pay dividends. “There has been a lot said about how this man is living in a social bubble,” said Robert Parker, 54, who attended the Hull rally. “But Corbyn’s policies are substance not spin. Out here in the north, Labour has a real chance of being elected.” Tegan Tallullah reported similar scenes in Brighton. “Corbyn was a bit late to his speech because he’d been talking to the 500-strong ‘overflow rally’ outside in the car park. “After my initial excitement at the popularity of the event I reminded myself ‘this is Brighton, a very left-liberal and youthful place’. But then, I’ve read that the similar rallies in Hull and Liverpool were extremely busy and popular too.” We also heard from people who offered an alternative view. “I attended a Corbyn rally in Manchester to see if there was anything said which would reassure me that Labour was ready to lead the country and make a difference”, said Tony, an IT manager from Bradford who put himself on the centre-left of the party. “But I didn’t see anything that suggested Corbyn can garner support outside of the people who attend his rallies.”  