1 February 1957: A slot machine which automatically dispenses tea to individual taste has been put on the market 1 February 1957: A slot machine which automatically dispenses tea to individual taste has been put on the market By our Industrial Corespondent 
 If one is to believe the advertisements in American magazines one of the main centres of transatlantic social life is the automatic soft drink dispensing machine. “Teenagers” make their dates round it, old craftsmen discuss the day’s work while refreshing themselves from it, and sometimes a whole family will gather round a smaller version much as an English family clusters round the television set. In whatever other directions she may have succumbed England has until now seemed safe from this particular American influence because serving her national drink – tea – has lent itself more to ritual than to mechanical operation.  But now at last the ceremony of the warmed pot and the freshly boiled water is being challenged. A slot machine which automatically dispenses tea to individual taste has been put on the market, and while it is still too early to say whether British families will take it to their hearts and hearths, it is said to be proving popular in sports clubs, canteens, and other social centres. Two coin slots are provided on the machine – one for tea with sugar, one for tea without. The tea in the machine has been extracted from the leaf by a special process. After extraction it is canned and deep frozen to keep it fresh until ready for use. The milk is kept in a refrigerated compartment of the machine until the customer’s coin trips the mechanism which delivers milk, tea, and water into a cardboard cup. The machine will fill 150 cups before it has to be recharged.  Lots through slotsThe ingenuity which has thus brought tea (or coffee) within the scope of the same kind of automatic marketing as bottled soft drinks is a typical illustration of the advances which have been made in recent years in what the trade calls vending machines. Before the war slot machine sales were mainly restricted to cigarettes and confectionery. During the war and immediately afterwards these goods were either rationed or scarce and the slot machines rusted forlorn and empty on the railway stations and outside tobacconists’ shops. Now they are appearing again in greater numbers than before and offering a wider range of goods than would ever have been thought possible twenty years ago.  This summer it should be possible for a family on a day trip to, say, Margate or Brighton to live almost entirely out of slot machines. There will be food and drink machines to take care of all their meals, if father wants to take a “snap” there will be machines selling rolls of film, if his daughter forgets her bathing costume she will be able to drop money in the slot for one, and mother will find a selection of picture postcard views to send to the neighbours also in slot machines. Should the older members of the family want to finish up the day at a dance the women will be able to renew their nylons from one machine and get a spray of perfume from another. For their partners there will be automatically dispensed hair cream to smarm down sea-frizzed hair. And should the family return home with any money which has not found its way into a slot they may find that their corner shop has introduced an automatic Christmas savings club which will be only too happy to receive the surplus florins.  Cigarettes and confectionery are still an important part of the trade, but the machines which dispense them have undergone revolutionary changes. Some have as many as 35 different “columns” of goods, and each column can give change to any amount from a halfpenny to 1s 1½d. The amount of change they give can be altered by a simple adjustment in the mechanism. Thus alterations in the tax on cigarettes, which used to create enormous difficulties for the trade before the war, can now be easily met by adjustment. Incidentally, a cigarette machine of normal size – nine or ten columns – in London takes between £70 and £100 in an average week; strangely enough, tobacconists who have installed them say that they do not seem to lessen the takings over the counter. Continue reading  