It’s not often the water sector causes many ripples of excitement, but Severn Trent is bucking a downbeat trend after it unveiled an agreed takeover deal. It is buying Dee Valley Group, a neighbouring business which operates in Wrexham and Chester, for £78.5m or £17.05 a share. Dee Valley, which has been supplying water for 150 years, has 125,000 customers in northeast Wales and northwest Cheshire. Severn chief executive Liv Garfield said: [This] represents an opportunity for Severn Trent to apply its successful operating model for the benefit of customers across an enlarged asset base. Dee Valley chairman Jon Schofield said: We believe the acquisition provides attractive value to Dee Valley shareholders. Severn Trent shares are up 51p at £21.90 on the news. The sector has also benefitted from Citigroup raising its recommendation to neutral on Severn, Pennon, 15p better at 791p, and United Utilities, up 7.5p at 883p. Overall the FTSE 100 is down 11.01 points at 6781.73 as investors pause for breath again, and the UK jobless rate falls to an 11 year low but benefit claims rise. Rolls-Royce is leading the fallers, down 26p at 728.5p after the aero engine maker said it aimed to deliver cost savings at the top end of its guided £150m to £200m range to cope with mixed markets. It also announced more details of a change in accounting policy. George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: Five profit warnings in the 20 months up to November 2015 means Rolls-Royce shareholders have had anything but a smooth ride recently. Over this time, the group’s credibility took a pasting and its accounting policies were widely criticised.  For example, Rolls previously accounted for aftermarket revenues, the maintenance and service work done after the engines are initially sold, upfront. But when customers started to retire old planes rather than have existing ones serviced, much of that cash never materialised. The new accounting policies mean that last year’s profits will be restated, and adjusted down by £900m. However, that doesn’t affect what is actually coming in to the group’s coffers, only when it’s accounted for. The new system should mean greater clarity moving forward.  Operationally, the group is undergoing some major restructures. Investors will hope that it emerges as a leaner and more transparent company. However, the road ahead could be a long one, and as Rolls-Royce has found, it is best not to count any chickens before they have hatched. Barratt Developments has fallen 12.5p to 470.4p after the housebuilder’s latest update showed it cutting London prices at the top end of the market. Among the mid-caps B&M European Value Retail continues to rise following Tuesday’s update, adding 10.9p to 255.9p as Jefferies moved from hold to buy with a 285p target. It said: We believe B&M’s 33% share price fall since peak provides a buying opportunity. We think B&M is well positioned for a tough UK consumer environment and Jefferies’ latest consumer survey results support our view that B&M can gain market share and maintain resilient margins. But Ocado has dropped 19.1p to 263.1p as one of its partners Morrisons unveiled an increased deal with Amazon. Bruno Monteyne at Bernstein said: It’s unclear at this stage what the deal means for the prospect of in-store picking with Ocado but it will certainly give Morrisons much better negotiation power in the discussions. It should also improve the bargaining position any other retailer looking to sign a deal with Ocado. 