Theresa May is expected to uphold Britain’s opposition to punitive tariffs on cut-price Chinese steel on the second day of the EU summit on Friday. Britain has been in the vanguard of countries blocking reform of EU trade tariffs, but some diplomats had hoped the UK would shift its stance after May swung her weight behind an industrial strategy for the UK. Under the leadership of David Cameron, the UK opposed the reform of the lesser-duty rule, which limits tariffs that can be imposed on artificially cheap goods. As a result, EU punitive duties on dumped goods are far lower than those levied by the US. Cheap Chinese steel has been flooding world markets, putting pressure on steelmakers across Europe and threatening 11,000 jobs at Port Talbot in Wales. But British government sources played down expectations that May would change the UK’s stance. “Everything we have heard from her so far is the same as the previous prime minister, that the balance should not be lost between users, retailers and consumers,” one government source said. The Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron, accused May of “shameless hypocrisy” for failing to back tougher measures against cheap Chinese imports. “The Tories claim to support the British steel industry back home but are blocking stronger trade defences in Brussels,” he said. “Thousands of workers across the country are relying on her to do the right thing.” The UK is not the only country blocking the reform: the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Ireland, Denmark and some Baltic countries reaffirmed their opposition to changing the tariffs earlier this week. The steel issue has been overshadowed by a last-ditch scramble to rescue a landmark EU trade deal with Canada, which is being blocked by a Belgian regional parliament. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement (Ceta), which would eliminate tariffs on most goods between the EU and Canada, has been seven years in the making. All 28 EU governments support it, but the Walloon parliament is preventing the Belgian government from signing. Arriving at the summit on Friday, the Belgian prime minister, Charles Michel, said he had not been reassured by overnight negotiations with Walloon leaders, who he said had “radicalised” their positions. “While we are sitting at the table there must be strong will to find a solution,” he said. “That is my hope, but to be honest I am not totally reassured.” Following a night of frantic transatlantic phone calls and diplomatic huddles, Paul Magnette, the minister president of Wallonia, was meeting European commission diplomats and the Canadian trade minister, Chrystia Freeland, on Friday. Romania and Bulgaria are also withholding their consent to the Ceta deal in the hope of extracting concessions on visa-free travel to Canada for their citizens, but diplomats think this problem can be solved. Officials feel far gloomier about the Walloon opposition. The European council president, Donald Tusk, has said he is deeply concerned: “The credibility of Europe is at stake.” If the EU cannot find unanimous agreement on Ceta, the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, will cancel a visit to Brussels next week. The collapse of the deal would be a discouraging signal to the British government, which hopes to negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU after Brexit. “If we can’t make it with Canada, I don’t think we can make it with the UK,” quipped the EU trade commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, this week. 