 A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team “In the not too distant future,” the video’s description reads, “privacy is a thing of the past. Undeniable rights degrade like the paper they were written upon, and Big Brother has a constant eye on you and your family.” At which point, only a “determined man and an unequaled weapon”--Johnny Dronehunter and the Salvo 12, I assume--can save you. Yes, it’s an ad for a shotgun silencer (shotguns can, apparently, be silenced). But guaranteed: in five years, you’ll wish shooting drones out the sky was legal. It’s now difficult to tell if Justine Tunney is a real person or not. Reading her Twitter and blog, she seems like some sort robot intelligence, an artificial entity designed to offend and disgust. No person can be this awful, right? Is it an act? A long-con of hardcore trolling? At a time when anti-tech resentment is at a high, can someone possibly be this brazen? One school of thought says “don’t feed the trolls”. Another says “this is dangerous and should not be ignored”. In a post on its company’s forums Tuesday, Amazon said that it would like to see most e-books priced at $9.99, rather than the common $14.99 or $19.99 prices that publishers set for digital copies of their books. Amazon argued that while it doesn’t want every e-book to be set at $9.99, using that price for the majority of digital books would benefit customers, publishers and Amazon itself. Hachette, unsurprisingly, does not seem to feel that “let’s lower the price of books” is a good selling point. We’re fortunate that millions of people all over the world support the work of the Wikimedia Foundation through donations. It has always been important to the Foundation to make sure donating is as simple and inclusive as possible. Currently, we accept 13 different payment methods enabling donations from nearly every country in the world, and today, we’re adding one more: Bitcoin. Surprising it’s taken this long, really. In “Flappy Saver,” a knock-off of the popular mobile game Flappy Bird, the player best able to navigate hurdles such as jewelery stores and shoe shops wins the highest score by protecting savings stored in a flying piggy bank. Truly we live in the worst of all possible worlds. “Usies are a growing trend that I think have far more social value than selfies,” said Michal Ann Strahilevitz, a professor of marketing at Golden Gate University in San Francisco who studies consumer behavior. “It’s magical capturing moments we share with other people.” Definitely the worst of all possible worlds. On Chrome, two popular ad blockers are currently available: AdBlock and Adblock Plus. Despite the confusingly similar names, they are completely unrelated projects. I am in charge of the latter, yet people will occasionally ask me whether I would recommend AdBlock or Adblock Plus to them. The AdBlock wars get nasty. We know the attack looked for users who fetched hidden service descriptors, but the attackers likely were not able to see any application-level traffic (e.g. what pages were loaded or even whether users visited the hidden service they looked up). This may or may not be related to a cancelled talk on Tor attacks at Black Hat 2014. You can follow Guardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service. 