Guardian readers on how the former prime minister will be remembered for the ‘worst political misjudgement since Suez’ 
Guardian readers and 
James Walsh 
 He came to office with the narrow-minded belief that everything must rotate around reducing the deficit. This has led to terrible consequences for the poor, for working families and for the public sector and public spending. His inability and unwillingness to deviate, even when his deficit-reducing policies and austerity measures were failing makes him one of the worst Prime Ministers this country has ever seen.  Above all he will be remembered as the leader who who, through his own weakness and inability to unite his own MPs, led Britain out of the European Union.  For short-term relief from the critics in his own party and to protect his own position he has placed the future of millions of Brits in peril.Stephen Nulty, Liverpool Cameron occasionally looked the part when at the dispatch box, if you count doing well as scoring smart one liners against the leader of the opposition – which he often did. But on so may counts he did a bad job: letting Osborne loose on those on welfare who were in need of help, not further hardship; crowing repeatedly about achievements with the NHS when the truth was that under-resourcing and reorganization have all but reduced it to ruins.  He’ll be remembered as a smart operator but lightweight thinker, whose lack of serious preparation and narrow internal Tory party political posturing led to the disastrous, inward-looking, petty nationalistic Brexit vote.Chris, company manager, Harpenden He was clearly impressed by the electoral success of Tony Blair and chosen as the Conservative party’s version of that image, at a time when presentation over substance was all. I saw Cameron as a pale version of his mentor, possessing all the faults of Blairism; the presentation over policy; manipulating the narrative of economic incompetence of the previous government; talking the talk of equality of opportunities, while offering greater assistance to the very wealthy and little to nothing to improve the lives of the majority. And all of this without a party’s forceful desire for positive change that supported Blair as party leader and prime minister.  He was a real opportunist who thought, like Blair, that politics was about electoral success and the grinding of his enemies into the political dust. It may be seen that Cameron’s personal failures were his party’s saving, a fate in reverse for Blair and Labour. Chris Edwards, solicitor, Port Talbot  The Cameron era: Brexit, the possible break up of the UK, bedroom tax, junior doctors’ strikes, Chinese nuclear power, zero hour contracts, rioting in the streets, bosses’ pay, further diminution of trade union power and public sector workers’ rights, worsening pay and conditions, continued stealthy privatisation of health and education, later and later retirement for workers, unaffordable house prices coupled with the selling off of public stock,, increasing disenchantment with the political class, and a quick shameless/shamefaced exit!Glyn Collins, London He will be remembered as the PM who took Britain out of Europe and changed the country’s identity for generations. Panicked by the laughably insignificant threat of Ukip’s one member of parliament, in promising a referendum he made the worst political misjudgement since Suez.Arthur Bliss, Cornwall He presided over the expanded privatisation of the NHS; the destruction of the education system by Michael Gove; the vicious and vindictive persecution of the poor and needy under Ian Duncan Smith; the absurdly inept economic policy of George Osborne; and the obscene rise in house prices, particularly in London.  He put party interest above national interest, particularly in his inept handling of the referendum. He screwed over the Liberal Democrats over student fees and over electoral reform. He toadied to corporations and bankers while depressing the wages of almost everybody else. He utterly failed to do anything useful about the abuse of the tax system and offshore havens. I cannot think of a single thing he did to enhance the lives of the ordinary people of this country.Retired university lecturer, West Midlands 