 'Even Edwin Moses had to lose eventually,' Serena Williams said here. Not until the American hurdler had won 122 races, he didn't. Which suggests that the 21-year-old world number one secretly believes that becoming the first player to last a calendar year unbeaten might be possible. To do it she will need to play better than yesterday. In suffocating heat in the final of the Nasdaq-100 Open, she only just gained her seventeenth win of 2003, a 4-6 6-4 6-1 success against Jennifer Capriati, to complete the first four months unbeaten.  During this time, Williams appears to have opened a gap over the rest of the field. But, for a while, Capriati chose to ignore this and even indicated she might give herself an unexpected twenty-seventh birthday present.  After she fell 2-0 behind at the start, Capriati's next shot was launched in anger, a forehand return struck so fiercely flat that it appeared to travel parallel to everything and still land in court. That did two things: rid Capriati of some of her tension and roused the crowd.  For half an hour after breaking back, she played her best tennis of the year, managing a scampering containment of some of Williams's fiercest shots and sometimes taking the initiative away from the world's hardest hitter by getting in first with her one big weapon, her forehand drive.  Meanwhile undesirable elements in the crowd grew louder and louder. When a Capriati return was called long they whistled and hooted, and when Capriati got a lucky net cord some of the cheers had a triumphalist tone. Eventually the umpire demanded spectators cease their distracting remarks during the rallies.  By then, Williams was looking unsettled and sombre. Once when a backhand drive smacked the net tape she threw down her racket in disgust, to more cheers.  But nobody hits more winners than Williams. The drive volley that broke Capriati early in the second set disappeared as if trailing smoke, and soon Williams had clouted Capriati's modest service deliveries for a second break of serve.  That should have turned the tide. But it didn't quite. Williams double faulted at set point - 5-3, 40-30 - and lost serve. It required her steadiest resolve of the match at 5-4 to chisel another break and to establish an edgy parity.  Only then did Williams established the superiority that her weight of shot decreed she should. And only by introducing more patience into the mix that she achieved it.  'I wasn't on my game today but I am going to go home and take some time off to practise,' Williams said. 'I've been hanging out and slacking off and I've not been to the gym for three weeks which my trainer isn't pleaseed with.' 