Letters 
 Tony Greenstein et al state (Letters, 5 October) that “it has always been a principle of the Zionist movement that the Nazi Holocaust was exclusive to the Jews”. Not so: those who support the creation of a territorial nation state for the Jewish people have always acknowledged that socialists, homosexuals, Gypsies and many others perished at the hands of the Nazis. This is yet another example of the sweeping assertions by Momentum enthusiasts in which ignorance seems to be compounded by ill-will. That Jackie Walker was unaware of Holocaust Memorial Day’s engagement with comparable holocausts could be thought dismaying; her statement – in the face of all evidence to the contrary – that Jews were “the chief financiers of the slave trade” bordered on the malicious. One should not need to bandy definitions of EU law to realise that loyal Jewish Labour party members and voters may find such outbursts troubling. Those who aspire to leading roles in the labour movement should be willing to listen to the concerns of their comrades, rather than casting about for more ways to shoot them down.Dr Anne SummersLondon • In reply to those supporting Jackie Walker, and to assist her, my dictionary’s definition of antisemitism is “hostility towards, or prejudice against, Jews”. If she is unsure whether any criticism she may have of Israel amounts to antisemitism, she could consider applying the “three Ds”, ie demonisation, double standards or delegitimisation. I have attended a number of Holocaust Memorial ceremonies and on each occasion the emphasis has been on “Never Again”, and reference made to groups other than Jews persecuted as part of the Holocaust. Indeed, The Holocaust Memorial Day Trust website includes other holocausts, eg Rwanda and Bosnia. I hope this helps Jackie Walker and her supporters. Should she or they have difficulty understanding other forms of prejudice, eg Islamophobia, racism, sexism, homophobia, I would be happy to help.Ruth Gwinnell Hullbridge, Essex • A quick search reveals that the opening paragraph of the HMD Trust website headed “Why mark the 27 January Holocaust Memorial Day?” highlights Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia and Darfur. The Holocaust Educational Trust supplies teacher packs for schools and colleges that make reference to other acts of genocides and the conditions that give rise to them. What grounds do Jackie and the 29 signatories have for suggesting that “the Zionist movement” has succeeded in its alleged aim of making HMD exclusive?Pam ClarkeHorsham, West Sussex  