Abandoning a six-figure Silicon Valley job to start from scratch could be a pipe dream. Or it could be a rare opportunity in a ‘place where they reward failure’ 
 “This might be one of the worst decisions I’ve ever made in my life,” said Thomas So. On the other hand, it could be a risk that pays off big time, the 24-year-old calculates. Last month, So walked away from a programming job at a Silicon Valley startup paying him a six-figure salary, leaving behind stock options worth (he calculates) millions more, to join a startup that at that point was being funded with cash from its founders’ credit cards.  Nor was he alone. Mike Eidlin, one of the four co-founders of bookmarq, a fledgling social networking site whose goal is to link booklovers worldwide, abandoned his fledgling career as an investment banker with Citigroup in Tokyo to return to the San Francisco Bay area, and re-start his career from scratch.  “I decided I didn’t want to be a small cog in a big wheel,” said Eidlin, who launched his new life by taking a coding boot camp. “All of us who joined together to launch this company would have had to wonder, if we hadn’t done it, what might have happened – the ‘what if?’ This is what we’re passionate about.”  This kind of passion and risk-taking is precisely what we’re not supposed to be seeing within the ranks of millennials, if the surveys are to be believed. Financially-speaking, they’re the most risk-averse generation since the Great Depression, emphasizing saving (cash in the mattress is better than trusting the stock market, they seem to believe) over spending. They’re encumbered by greater levels of student debt when they finish college, making them warier still about taking big risks with their careers that might not pay off financially or that – worst of all – might result in them losing what they’ve already managed to set aside.   That’s spilling over into their approach to the workplace. Many are too wary to even negotiate a starting salary with potential employers – a big mistake. Millennials seem to shun sales jobs, viewing them as not offering a clear enough career path or stable compensation.  And then there are the bookmarq guys, all of whom defy these stereotypes. Igor Chebotarev, the team’s 20-year-old designer, didn’t even attend college at all; the Sacramento teen took his first full-time design job while still in high school.  “I had actually assumed I’d go on to college and was researching different design schools and programs,” he says. Then he took two college courses as part of his high school home-schooling curriculum, one on typography and the other on 3D design. “I realized that they did teach me quite a bit, but by then I was pursuing a career, and learning on the job was actually the best way I learned, about both design and business, as I went after my own clients” at the agency he joined as its first employee, Creative Dash.  By the time Chebotarev left in April to devote his time to bookmarq, he was one of a dozen employees, if still its youngest – and his views on the risk he had taken on not attending college hadn’t changed. “If I’d decided to become a surgeon, it would have been different – I couldn’t get away with saying I’d decided to learn in my bedroom by myself,” he quips. Design, however, is different, he argues. “The value is more in the passion and the talent than the degree – at Creative Dash, we looked at what work they could do, not at where they went to school.”  All of bookmarq’s founders acknowledge that they’re taking risks with their future – but all emphasize that they are taking informed risks and prudent ones.  Thomas So, for instance, used the signing bonus he received at his last job to pay off virtually all his remaining student debt from his years at UC Davis (which is where he met Eidlin and bookmarq’s other co-founder, Raymond Lau). “Before doing something like this, you have to wipe your plate clean; get rid of loans and any baggage and have some savings,” he says. “It also helps to make sure your parents aren’t so crazy traditional that they’ll get depressed about you coming back home to live.” (All the founders are back at home, living with their families.)  All are well aware that their venture – which will be going up against well-funded and established rivals like Goodreads – may well flounder and fail.  Already, it has been a rollercoaster ride. Late last month, bookmarq was selected as one of four finalists at the Startup Challenge at the BookExpo trade show in New York and given the opportunity to make an elevator pitch to a group of judges that included venture capitalists. The laurels – and the $10,000 grand prize – went to one of the other finalists.  Two days later, however, Eidlin was triumphant: bookmarq had landed financing through 500 Startups, an accelerator program in San Francisco, valuing the company at $500m. “We now have access to a bunch of mentors and adviser we couldn’t reach any other way,” he said exultantly. The real risk, the founders argue, is not trying at all. “In the worst case, if bookmarq can’t secure long-term funding, I can look for new jobs with this experience, pointing to this app that I built, mostly on a part-time basis,” says So. “That’s only going to increase my value to an employer, because it speaks to who I am as a software engineer.” Eidlin is even more visionary. Silicon Valley, he says, “is a place where they reward failure. I can walk into a job interview and say, ‘I tried to start three companies and they failed and this is what I learned.’ If ever there was a time in life to take risks, this is it.” Even if bookmarq collapses, Cherbotarev still isn’t convinced that college would be his next destination. “Either way, I’ll spend the next four years learning; it’s just about where I think I could make the most of my time, and where I think I can accomplish the most. I think everyone should ask themselves that question.” The surveys and gloomy pundits may focus on one set of lessons that millennials have learned, coming of age during and after the financial crisis of 2008, watching their parents struggle financially and facing a grim employment market. Clearly, for some strategic-minded and driven individuals – even those without an Ivy League diploma or a big trust fund behind them – willing to think strategically and prepared to take outsize risks, there is an option B.  