 As American tennis gloried in the last hurrahs of Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi, the current world No1 Lleyton Hewitt painted a far darker picture at the weekend of the sport's future in the United States and worldwide.  "I love to see those two in the final, I think everyone [does] and it's great for men's tennis but sooner or later when they do retire there is a downside," said Hewitt. "People are going to want to go on seeing Sampras-Agassi finals and they are not going to be there in five, ten years' time."  At 21, Hewitt is a decade younger than either of America's veteran campaigners and knows that he currently has no genuine rival, and isn't likely to have one any time soon.  Instead of the roster of bankable stars which the women's game can boast, men's tennis is populated by journeymen and anonymous South Americans such as the Wimbledon finalist David Nalbandian.  "It would be nice to have a rivalry going like Agassi and Sampras have had for so many years, but who knows?" said Hewitt. "I've only reached two grand slam finals and I've got to keep trying to give myself as good a chance of getting to the final - and then maybe I'll have Andy Roddick, Roger Federer or Marat Safin up the other end most times, who knows?"  Of the three potential rivals Hewitt mentioned, only Safin has won a grand slam title (at the US Open in 2000 when, ironically, he beat Sampras) and neither Roddick nor Federer has got past the quarter-finals of a slam. None of the three has shown anything like Hewitt's consistency or the mental fortitude needed to challenge him.  Instead Hewitt must content himself with the Nalbandians of this world while the fans and the TV network executives switch off in their droves. The reality of the current state of men's tennis is that Sampras's appearance in a major final is almost more surprising than Nalbandian's. The Argentinian was seeded one place higher than Sampras here in the US Open and, unlike Sampras, he has won a title this year.  One look down the roster of men's finalists in this year's previous slam finals says it all. The Australian Open was won by the 26-year-old Swede Thomas Johansson, who beat Safin in the final; then Albert Costa and Juan Carlos Ferrero contested a stultifying all-Spanish French Open final.  Boris Becker, who was part of the same golden era as Agassi and Sampras, thinks that Hewitt's potential rivals are being waylaid by playing relatively minor events on the relentless ATP Tour.  "There's a reason why Andre and Pete gear up for the slams," Becker said. "Those are what matters. It's not good enough to be No4 in the world, you have to win grand slams.  "Sometimes the priorities of these guys are not with the slams, they want to play every week and make their money, but at the end of the day you are judged by how many grand slam finals you reach, not by how many lower tournaments you won. The priority has shifted and it's wrong."  Roddick's loss to Sampras last Thursday was a case in point. The 20-year-old has been heralded as the future of American tennis and by winning four titles he has done enough in the routine ATP Tour events to justify some of the hype, but he has reached only one Masters Series final and has faltered on the big stage.  In the quarter-finals here, playing a night match in the 23,000-seater Arthur Ashe stadium against his boyhood idol Sampras, Roddick did a passable impression of a rabbit in the headlights. For all the American-led praise of Sampras's play, the 31-year-old will know deep down that he faced meagre opposition.  Hewitt should soon get used to that feeling, for once the old stagers have taken their last curtain calls and left tennis for good, the Australian may find himself cast as the reluctant star of a one-man show. 