 Andre Agassi staged an amazing comeback to get the home crowd on his side and end James Blake's run at the US Open after looking like he might lose in straight sets. Agassi rebounded from a slow start, storming his way back in the third and fourth sets before outlasting Blake in a fifth-set tie-break for a 3-6, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) quarter-final triumph. The American crowd had a difficult decision in selecting a player to cheer for between the ageing Agassi and young American wild card Blake. Fans were unusually quiet early in the match but turned raucous as what seemed like an early rout turned into one of the most thrilling battles of the tournament. Blake overpowered Agassi with strength and speed early, needing just 23 minutes to win the first set, before storming through the second. He broke serve five times in the first two sets as Agassi looked old and out of rhythm. Agassi was down 0-2 in the third before turning the tables. He won the final four games of the third set and rolled through the fourth, sending the crowd at Arthur Ashe Stadium into a frenzy. The cheering gave Agassi new life as Blake seemed to tire, and he dominated the fourth with 13 winners. Blake's frustration was evident as Agassi's revival unfolded across the net. But the 25-year-old came back strongly in the fifth set, holding his final two serves and delivering an ace to forge a 6-6 tie and force a tie-break. A native of Yonkers, New York, Blake jumped into a 3-0 lead as Agassi hit two returns that did not clear the net. But Agassi pulled back to 3-2 on a drop shot off, then volleyed long to make it 3-3. Blake followed with a booming ace and had his last lead at 5-4 after a backhand return from Agassi went less than an inch past the baseline. But the eight-time Grand Slam winner regrouped, returning Blake's second serve with a cross-court forehand winner. It was tied at 6-6 when Blake hustled to the net to return a drop shot from Agassi, who responded with a deep backhander to gain the lead. Blake had a chance to extend the tie-break, but Agassi returned his second serve with a forehand winner that hit the baseline. "I was just happy it turned into a match," said Agassi. "I like the way I was hitting when the match started, but he was letting balls fly and I tried to pick my pace a little bit and I got out of sorts." At 35, Agassi becomes the oldest semi-finalist at the US Open since Jimmy Connors rode an overwhelming wave of crowd support to the final four in 1991. He advances to an all-American semi-final against Robby Ginepri, who previously never had been beyond the fourth round of a Grand Slam. Ginepri progressed with a thrilling 4-6, 6-1, 7-5, 3-6, 7-5 triumph over No8 seed Guillermo Coria of Argentina. 