Marks & Spencer’s new boss, Steve Rowe, faces the City for the first time on Thursday, just days after starting the job with a tour of the Croydon store where he first began working for M&S as a 15-year-old Saturday boy. Pacing the aisles in the shop where he once packed knitwear, and his grandmother worked in the lingerie department, would have given him a good perspective on M&S’s problems.  Just like the wider business, the Croydon store faces an uncertain future as it fights for space within the planned redevelopment of the 1960s Whitgift shopping centre by Westfield and Hammerson. On a mild spring midweek day when the Guardian visits, the store looks a bit shabby round the edges with a broken security barrier and tatty toilets that do not appear to have been refurbished since the centre opened. But the cafe is packed with mostly middle-aged women, mothers and some elderly men enjoying lunch or a coffee and a gossip.  It is busy in footwear, food and beauty but the most crowded section of the store is by the sale rails where friends attempt to hunt out a bargain together. The broad church of M&S’s potential customer base is most evident by the menswear sale rail where a baseball capped youth is checking out trousers beside a suited office worker and an elderly chap in a Barbour-style jacket and slacks. Rowe told staff he was committed to having stores in Croydon, which he said had a “bright future”. Shoppers in Croydon seem less sure about M&S’s place on their high street.  “I don’t buy things in M&S,” says Marvia, a fashionable 45-year-old passing by the store with her son. “Maybe the prices need to come down. I want to see something trendier. At my age, I’m looking at classics but I want to mix and match and I don’t feel like I want to dress in a certain way yet. They should look at what Zara is doing. That’s my shop.” Nicole, 41, says she will pop into M&S for underwear, trousers or boots but “they need to be more modern to attract younger people”. Rowe would do well to listen to these women in their 40s who used to be M&S’s core customer base. Now the average shopper is well over 50 and the retailer has recorded only one quarterly increase in clothing sales in the past five years.  On Thursday, M&S revealed another slide in sales in the three months to end March. Clothing and homewares like-for-like sales were down by 2.7%, although this was better than the 3% fall that had been expected by analysts.  In Croydon, even older shoppers who remain loyal say their daughters no longer accompany them into M&S because the styling is not up to scratch. “The style and the price are OK for me although it is more expensive than other places like Debenhams,” says Catherine Taylor, a smart and stylishly dressed 72-year-old. “But for the young that come in, there isn’t anything trendy.” Sharon and Janice, 57 and 80, say they are big fans of M&S and admit they are dressed nearly head to toe in the chain’s clothing. “I love the food,” says Sharon, “and the quality of the clothing is good.” But Janice says too many of the dresses and skirts are too short for her and she can no longer find the simple well-made trousers and skirts that she used to buy regularly for work. “In a nutshell, they have stopped selling the classic styles which everyone used to come to M&S for,” she says. Whether it’s classics or fashion, M&S’s place on the high street in Croydon and beyond will depend on Rowe finding a way to ensure 40- to 50-year-olds feel as comfortable in its clothing as they did when he was first working on the shop floor 30 years ago.        