Andrew Lloyd Webber has said he considered quitting the Conservative party in the House of Lords after being convinced by George Osborne to vote to cut tax credits. The peer, who told the Evening Standard he had not formally quit the Tories but would prefer to sit as an independent, has only voted in the Lords about 30 times in his 19 years in the chamber. Last year, the composer, who is worth an estimated £650m, was criticised for returning from the US to vote against a Lords amendment that would delay Osborne’s tax credits cut for three years, but the measure still failed to pass.  Lloyd Webber, who said afterwards he did not make the journey to the UK specifically to vote, said he had been led to believe the policy would be dropped shortly afterwards.  “I thought it was wrong,” he said. “I have an email in which I said, ‘I’m deeply worried if I come in’, but we were asked to vote and were given off-the-record assurances that the chancellor was going to rescind this.”  The experience and the criticism made him so uncomfortable he considered retiring from the Lords, he said. “I was put in as an honour, not as a working peer,” he said. “Not as lobby fodder. I’m fed up with the fact that I keep being asked now to go in and vote for things about which I don’t have knowledge.” Lloyd Webber said he would not follow the Tory whip automatically again. “Quite honestly, if I resign from the Conservative party it would make people start …” he told the paper, trailing off. “It’s a slightly damned if you do, damned if you don’t situation. I would like to be an independent.  “I would like to be a crossbencher if I could, but doing that is quite a rigmarole and there are more important things in my life.” The impresario, who created musicals including Cats, Phantom of the Opera, Joseph and Jesus Christ Superstar, said he resented how the Lords had changed in the past two decades, saying it was now full of “superannuated politicians” when before peers had tended to vote with their conscience.  “I remember saying when I was offered it that, although deeply honoured, I have an active career and couldn’t be a part of a house that is about legislation,” he said. “I would only take the title on the understanding that I would come in on issues to which I could contribute.  “And they said: ‘We haven’t enough voices with practical experience of theatre, the arts or music, and we would like you to be there.’” The peer, who was made Lord Lloyd-Webber in 1997, said he had minimal contact with the current or previous Tory governments. John Major, he said, was a friend and “one of the most underestimated PMs we’ve had”, but Cameron had “never embraced me or talked to me” and “made so many errors of judgment it worried me”. Theresa May was not in touch, he said, but he had opposed the UK leaving the EU and feared she would cut arts funding.  “The arts have never been more vital in schools,” he said. “The arts are the one thing that appeal right across all forms of politics, race, creed – everything.” 