 Jennifer Capriati will not want another match like yesterday's shaky victory against Tatiana Panova. Ideally, if you are to win the tournament, you want to build up and play better and better with each match. Yesterday she took a step back. A match like this never helps. You're just happy you got through, and then you go back to the practice courts to try to figure out what was wrong - whether it was mental, emotional, physical or technical or what.  However, she played really well at the end and she must try to remember that. Better to play badly and finish on a high note than to play really well and then barely finish off the match.  She certainly didn't improve her odds on winning the tournament, but then again she won four and four and on grass that's a kill. Yet against Panova it should have been easier. This tournament doesn't really get going until the last 16 both for men and women. With the 32 seeds, the first few rounds are just jockeying for position and making sure that everything is working.  Jennifer discovered there is still a bit to work on. It was a terrible performance. For a set and a half she wasn't on her game. There were something like 27 unforced errors by the middle of the second set and only five or six winners, which is awful by her standards.  I saw her in the locker room beforehand and she was a bit rushed getting ready for the match. She started out really badly and couldn't get going until the end. There could be a whole bunch of reasons why that happened, but she just looked out of sorts.  She hit a lot of double faults but may have been put off by Panova repeatedly indicating she wasn't ready to receive, even between first and second serves. She has no right to do that and I know if I'd been playing that would have thrown me off.  I do think Jennifer can win Wimbledon but she's not my favourite. I think Serena Williams is looking a lot better than anybody right now. She was my pick from a long time ago - and no one's really talked about her, which I think she likes. I would also put Lindsay Davenport ahead of Jennifer at the moment and of course Venus can't be discounted.  The pressure isn't overwhelming on Jennifer and the question of whether she can win the grand slam doesn't seem to be weighing her down. Mentally, though, it's hard to keep it going. It's the hardest feat in tennis to win the French Open and Wimbledon in the same year, even harder than winning the US Open and Wimbledon. They come so quickly back-to-back and are two completely different surfaces and mindsets.  It's amazing that the four heavy favourites are all American. Women's tennis has been in great shape in the States for a long time, but people were saying after Chris Evert retired (they didn't count me as a true American) that it was a little thin. But Lindsay Davenport has been in the top four for years, and now they've got the Williams sisters and Jennifer's come back. It all goes in cycles and right now they are on the crest of a huge wave.  They are all so tall and powerful that I'm looking up to them in the locker room. They have the shoulders of linebackers and though I used to look imposing against the other players I'm now the pipsqueak in there.  It shows the women's game is in great shape right now. It's never been better. There are great players, great personalities (even the Williams sisters are very different). The only problem's been the small number of tournaments the Williams sisters have played - that's not healthy for the game, but they'll play more.  I don't think they've been that hurt. They've been begging off with injuries a lot but I think they've been making excuses. Maybe they've had a little tweak here and there but they always seem to be fit for the big tournaments.  However, I think Venus will begin to take her role a bit more seriously as a tennis player. She admitted herself she hasn't been totally comitted to being No1 and playing tennis full-time, while Serena's just hitting her stride. So I see them playing more and that's great for the game.  They still have a big say in how this tournament will finish - as does Capriati. 