Subdued stock markets following the Brexit vote hit UK revenues at online trading group IG, but following the news its own shares are anything but subdued. They have fallen more than 3% to 897p as it reported that its revenues from UK and Ireland fell by 1.8% to £55.4m in the first quarter. But Europe rose 13% and overall revenues rose 5.1% to £111.4m. It said: Financial markets through July and August became increasingly subdued and presented limited trading opportunities for both current and new clients. The company admitted it was a challenging quarter, with the dull markets after the EU vote following a period of volatility around the referendum itself. During the voting period, IG asked clients to increase the amount of cash they were required to hold in their accounts, which dissuaded many of them from trading. In a hold note, analysts at Numis said: IG reported first quarter revenues of £111.4m, 7% below our estimate of £120.0m where our revenue forecasts for this year were materially ahead of consensus. The quarter was characterised by an unusually divergent trend in customer numbers, revenue per client and performance by geography... We are reducing our revenue estimate for this year by 4% to £500.0m (which is in line with current consensus) from £518.8m which takes our earnings per share forecast to 47.0p from 50.5p... The key IG message remains enhanced growth driven by digital marketing, superior IT. The substantial, ongoing customer growth is a good guide to long-term shareholder value creation of the group’s growth strategy. IG is currently being valued at 19.7 times earnings. Shore Capital’s Paul McGinnis repeated his sell recommendation: The main reason for our sell recommendation is valuation. With independent estimates of underlying market growth at 7-8% (albeit with some short term volatility), combined with periodic investment in both the trading platform and digital marketing activities, we think that a 12 month forward PE multiple of 15 times adequately captures IG’s prospects. Therefore, ahead updating the model, our last published fair value of 715p remains too far below the current price for us to consider moderating our sell stance on this well-managed group.  Overall the market continues to edge higher ahead of the week’s key interest rate setting meetings from the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan. The FTSE 100 is currently up 16.07 points at 6829.62. Airline shares are under pressure following the recent strength in the oil price amid talk of a possible agreement next week by producers to curb output, albeit crude has lost some of those gains today. And there is much scepticism that any agreement will be reached. Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst Nordic bank SEB, said: We see no chance of a production freeze agreement materialising. If a deal nonetheless should materialise it would be a conditional deal where Iran, Libya, Nigeria and Venezuela are allowed to lift their production to 4.0 mb/d, 1.6 mb/d, 2.0 mb/d and 2.4 mb/d respectively. That would place an OPEC production “freeze cap” at about 36.2 mb/d versus an August production of 33.7 mb/d. Not much of a freeze in our view. Even so, worries about rising fuel costs have sent British Airways owner International Airlines Group 12.8p lower to 403p and easyJet down 23p to £10.47. The sector has also been hit by comments from Air France saying it expected further declines in bookings, partly due to recent terrorist attacks. Mining shares continue to support the market on hopes the Chinese economy would continue to grow, with BHP Billiton 20.5p better at £10.43. Joshua Mahony, market analyst at IG, said: Leading the FTSE higher are a plethora of mining stocks, amid talk of an ‘inflection point’ for both commodity prices and the Chinese economy as a whole. Comments from Rio Tinto CEO Jean-Sebastien Jacques served to solidify the growing feeling that we may have seen a bottom for commodity prices, as Chinese data shows signs of improvement and Moody’s upgraded their base metals view from negative to stable. Today’s six year high in Chinese house price growth comes off the back of a recent outperformance in investment, factory output and retail sales figures for August. Despite improving data, the key question is whether such improvements are merely stimulus driven and as such unsustainable over the long term. Meanwhile Kingfisher has climbed 3.9p to 380.6p after the B&Q owner beat first half forecasts with a 13.5% rise in underlying profits to £436m, although it pointed to uncertainty in the UK following the Brexit vote and cautioned on the outlook for France. Analysts at Stifel said: A slight beat at the pretax profit level (UK, Poland) and encouraging noises regarding the short-term progress in the Transformation programme. We do not expect consensus to change significantly today and we remain positive on the shares long term.  Among the mid-caps office rental group Regus has dropped nearly 6% to 273.1p after news that founder Mark Dixon was selling a 4% stake at 275p a share. 