Facebook is still a winner but Bebo, MySpace and Friends Reunited show the high price of investing in fickle trends How was it for you? Did you Twitter in Ugg boots while watching Big Brother? Or did you read Austerlitz, listen to Barenboim and watch Hidden? Here our critics pick the defining trends of the last 10 years… The odds are stacked against a company still trying to find a chief executive while tackling a digital revolution it isn't prepared for. By Steve Hewlett DC Thomson have bought Friends Reunited for £25m and will combine it with a family history site As with all strong drugs, quantitative easing is proving to be habit-forming. Warning letters are thought a deterrent by only a third of internet users, according to the survey – but the threat of getting cut off would be much more powerful China's big thinking | Well hello, Ada | Which road for Google? | IE8 – good or bad? « Friends disunited | Caught on camera | Free data - sort of Once the market leader, Friends Reunited continues to slide – and ITV Online is being forced to sell it off Emily Hill: How will the granddaddy of social networking find a buyer in a market already ruled by the likes of Twitter and Facebook? Social networking site could be worth a fraction of the £175m ITV paid for it in 2005. By Mark Sweney John Plunkett: In the age of Facebook and Twitter, getting in touch with an old buddy via Friends Reunited feels like old hat Decision by cash-strapped broadcaster expected to be announced next month ITV's failure to make Friends Reunited in to a successful social network has been plain to see since its acquisition in 2005. By Robert Andrews ITV will launch two iPhone applications for Friends Reunited next year, it said today, planning one each for the social networking site and its spin-off dating service. By Jemima Kiss ITV has hired Trinity Mirror executive Andy Baker to be the managing director of Friends Reunited, as the departing management share a multimillion-pound earn-out bonanza. By Mark Sweney 