Michael Russell, Scotland’s Brexit minister, says Westminster must provide greater clarity and transparency on its intentions 
Libby Brooks 
 The Scottish government has complained about a lack of clarity and transparency around the UK government’s position on the single market, after the first in a series of meetings during which David Davis has pledged to share his “latest thinking” on Brexit with the leaderships of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. At the end of October, Theresa May promised Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, the Welsh first minister, Carwyn Jones, and Northern Ireland’s first minister, Arlene Foster, and her deputy, Martin McGuinness, a “direct line” to Davis, her Brexit secretary, and set up the regular forum, which is intended to allow the devolved administrations to help shape Britain’s strategy as it leaves the European Union. But speaking after the first meeting of the joint ministerial committee on EU negotiations in London, the Scottish government’s Brexit minister, Michael Russell, called on the UK government to make its intentions clearer.  Russell said: “Although it is good that the process of involving the Scottish government and the other devolved administrations is under way, more than four months after the referendum the UK government has still not made its strategic intentions clear. “There was a discussion over EU market access but we do not know whether UK ministers want to remain inside the single market or the customs union. This will remain a considerable problem as we continue to promote the interests of Scotland. The UK government must provide greater clarity and transparency on its intentions.” At the meeting on Wednesday, Davis committed to sharing analysis undertaken by his department for exiting the European Union and to hosting further monthly forums. The Welsh cabinet secretary for finance, Mark Drakeford, who also attended, acknowledged that a lot still had to be done to ensure the devolved administrations could be “confident their views are to have a real impact on the UK’s negotiating position,” but said Wales would be a “reliable partner” in the discussions.  Both Drakeford and Russell said there was a continuing need for full and unfettered access to the single market. The secretary of state for Scotland, David Mundell, said the meeting was a good start. He said: “People across Scotland want the bickering and posturing to stop and for their two governments to work together, focused on how to secure the best deal for Scotland and the whole of the UK.” 