The British press have united in criticising the outgoing prime minister’s list of decorations. It’s hardly the first list of its kind – but public tolerance of such rewards has diminished over the years 
Michael White 
 Why is David Cameron in such trouble over his resignation honours list? For one thing, it’s the August silly season, when the news flow slackens. But last week’s leak of a mostly accurate list would have been a juicy one in any season. Someone inside the loop clearly disapproved and moved to sabotage it.  Are we talking about Cameron’s Etonian sense of entitlement here? We are indeed. Cameron has already created more peers than Thatcher. Unabashed by the humiliating failure of his campaign to head off Brexit and criticism of his decision to improve severance pay for his staff, the outgoing prime minister is giving 46 assorted gongs to Tory party donors, former No 10 aides and what the tabloids call “cronies”. Even EU Remain campaigners, whose feeble referendum efforts contributed to his downfall, are in line for a bauble, among them Will (son of Jack) Straw. Special advisers (spads) and other backstairs lowlife are, too. The feeling is (again) that Cameron has overdone it. The proposed OBE for Isabel Spearman, Sam Cam’s stylist, adds a dash of snobbery to the uproar.  But don’t most prime ministers use them to reward those sort of people? They do, but public tolerance has diminished in the age of austerity. Harold Wilson’s famous “lavender list” in 1976 (the notepaper was actually pink, protested Lady Falkender, its compiler) included a new peer who later went to jail and a knight who killed himself under investigation. Wilson’s doctor, Joe Stone, (who knew about his early-onset Alzheimer’s) got a peerage. Doormen, messengers, cleaning ladies and other blue-collar staff got lesser awards. They usually do. Jim Callaghan’s (1979), Margaret Thatcher’s (1990) and John Major’s (1997) lists caused less offence without being spotless. And on a separate occasion, Mrs T ignored advice not to give Jimmy Savile a knighthood. What about Gordon Brown and Tony Blair? Didn’t Blair get mixed up in a cash for honours investigation? Yes. But only one conviction for selling honours has ever been achieved, against Maundy Gregory, a careless and seedy bagman for the Tory and Liberal parties. That was in 1933, when even a knighthood cost £10,000 (over £300k today). In 2006-07 Scotland Yard failed to nail a prosecution against Blair’s team. Still, a chastened Blair did not risk his own 2007 resignation honours list. Nor did Brown in 2010, so Cameron’s is the first for nearly 20 years, which gives the row some novelty value. It has been inflamed because Cameron is also separately poised to publish yet another new list of peers. Strictly speaking, they will be the Queen’s appointments, but monarchs stopped complaining a long time ago.  Is that what former Cameron guru and pro-Brexit renegade Steve Hilton calls the “stench of corruption” – whereby wealthy people can buy access and honours by writing cheques and attending over-priced, OTT party balls in Mayfair? Yes, though Hilton had the grace to admit that his own salary was once paid by such donations. He could have added that his wife, Rachel Whetstone, is an ex-spad who went on to be a PR chief for Google (and now Uber) – just the sort of multinationals whose lobbying clout he now deplores. Hilton wants to curb large donations in favour of small-donor crowdsourcing. But Cameron’s priority “reform” was to cripple Labour’s funding by trades unions.  So is it shame that has prompted some would-be recipients to say they no longer want to be on any list? Possibly, though it may also be tactical. Disgraced BHS chief Sir Philip Green’s knighthood for services to retailing (Blair awarded it, Cameron gave him a job) should have put fastidious people off. But some just love it. Michael Spencer, billionaire former Tory treasurer (and big-time fundraiser for many real charities), has now failed to get past the honours scrutiny committee four times. He certainly doesn’t need a peer’s £300-a-day expenses because Icap, the financial brokerage service he created, is a major global player, albeit one caught up in a string of controversies. Why is it so hard to clean up the system? All sorts of improvements have been made in the past 40 years. Most honours are now made for non-state service to people from all walks of life, including women, minority groups and people who don’t live in London, all long under-represented. Since 1993 the public has also been able to make nominations. Since 1997 there has been a greater emphasis on those who do exceptional work in fields such as heath and education – though even they sometimes later fall from grace. So do some of the entrepreneurs politicians are so keen to promote over Buggins’s-turn civil servants: by their very nature, risk-takers can be risky. No scrutiny system can always spot trouble ahead. So, if Britain could create a fairer, more open method of party funding, and if no honour gave a recipient access to the legislature as an unelected peer, a lot of the fuss might die down? It would certainly help. But the coalition tried and failed to reform both. Theresa May is the latest prime minister to promise to do better. It might also help the “toxic honours” uproar in the press if the Daily Mail’s editor, Paul Dacre, finally got the knighthood he is said to crave. May would demonstrate a hitherto undetected sense of humour by adding it to the resignation honours list at the last minute. The citation could say it is for distinguished services to Brexit. 