 Billy Taylor made quite a point here yesterday. This, mysteriously, was the Hampshire bowler's first championship appearance since July 23, so to pick up career-best figures of six for 32, including a hat-trick in his seventh over, was particularly significant. It smacked of an "up-yours" statement of considerable resonance to the county's selectors. But while Taylor was beginning the first day of the First Division match unsuccessfully at the Northern End with three wicketless overs which cost 13 runs, James Bruce was busy shattering any illusions Andrew Strauss had of some gentle pre-Test practice by nipping one back to snare him for a third-ball duck. The Middlesex captain Ben Hutton and Ed Smith then added 50 but it was with the decision to swap Taylor to the Pavilion End that the day's play took on a very different shape. Beginning first with Smith leg-before, the Southampton-born seamer claimed his first five wickets in 16 deliveries. Jamie Dalrymple could do nothing with a snorter which bounced and left him, before Nick Compton became the first victim of the hat-trick - the first ever in the sixth season of championship cricket here - nicking via pad to short-leg. Paul Weekes was then yorked first ball and Ben Scott could only deflect off his inside edge on to his stumps to send Taylor delirious, a welcome addition to his two one-day hat-tricks for Sussex against Surrey and Leicestershire in 2002. Middlesex were then 52 for six and all the while Hutton had been grafting away assiduously. He might have carried his bat but was the last man out, bowled round his legs by Bruce, following a couple of defiant blows from Johann Louw and Mohammad Ali. Middlesex were all out in 32.3 overs, with six ducks, after winning the toss. To bat was the correct option, though - only post-championship winning Nottinghamshire elected to field here last season and went on to become the first toss-winners to lose a match. Naturally much concern centred on the wicket, especially with the ECB pitch liaison officer Tony Pigott on hand, but in truth it was not a 98 all out track. It looked and played no differently from any other Rose Bowl surface: greenish, difficult to bat on and giving liberal assistance to the seamers; but, with some positive intent and dollops of luck, its demons could be overcome. And Hampshire proved it. John Crawley did the technically-sound groundwork, his 55 coming from 108 balls, but Dominic Thornely (50 from 89) and Nic Pothas (50 off 76) produced a match-defining, unbeaten partnership of 104 as Hampshire built a 164-run lead. 