Robert Huth rose highest to score Leicester City’s winner at White Hart Lane and send his team joint-top of the Premier League 
 That’s all for now. Apologies to all whose comments we couldn’t get to. Clearly, we’ve a cracking few months in store. Thanks for following along with us. Updated
 And there’s the final whistle! Robert Huth’s routine goal off a Fuchs corner seven minutes from time gives Leicester the three points. And just like that, thanks in no small part to a Joe Allen last-gasp equalizer at Anfield, Leicester move level with Arsenal atop the table with 43 points. 
 90+3 min: Lamela gives it away cheaply before conceding a free kick. Excellent pressure from Kante to force the miscue. Spurs running out of time here. 
 90+2 min: (Meanwhile at Anfield, Liverpool have seconds ago equalized against Arsenal – a detail of no small interest to Leicester supporters.) 
 90 min: Nathan Dyer, whose hand ball on Sunday gave Tottenham their last-gasp escape, enters for Leicester’s Riyad Mahrez. For Spurs, Onomah on for Dier. Four minutes of stoppage time coming. 
 88 min: A third change coming for Leicester. And also for Spurs it would seem. No substantial chances for either side since the goal. 
 86 min: Spurs throwing bodies forward but Leicester shrewdly burning time and keeping it in the Tottenham half as much as possible. 
 Leicester win a corner. It’s sent into the area where it finds the conspicuously unmolested German centre back Robert Huth, who calmly deposits it into the top of the goal with a clinical header. Not sure who was marking him there – rather, who was assigned to be marking him there – but Leicester are within touching distance of a precious three points thanks to the gaffe. Updated
 79 min: Dier shown yellow for a clattering challenge on Ulloa. A bit of a lull in the action here. Surely feels like the calm before the store. 
 76 min: A longball from Schmeichel is played into the area and it’s one, two, three point-blank chances for Leicester, all of which deflect off fortuitously placed Tottenham players. How near they came to breaking through there! 
 75 min: Lamela sprints onto a cross from Walker, beating a lackadaisical Fuchs to the spot, but his one-time volley sails over the crossbar. 
 74 min: Leicester win a corner and play it short again, a gambit that hasn’t been working for them today. Again, quickly dispossessed. Spurs quick to counter-attack. 
 71 min: For Leicester, Vardy exits and Leonardo Ulloa comes on. Also, Christian Eriksen exits for Spurs in favor of Mousa Dembele, who is making his 100th Premier League appearance. 
 70 min: Walker drops it back to Alli to the right of the area, whose cross deflects out for another corner attempt. Erikson takes it but it’s dealt with by Simpson, who clears it easily. Now it appears Leicester will make their first swap of the match. 
 68 min: A ball is slipped into Lamela after he’s drifted into the area, but it’s swept away by Albrighton. Moments later Spurs win a corner. When the Spurs Go Marching In echoing through White Hart Lane. What an atmosphere. 
 65 min: Lamela’s effort is out off Vardy and Tottenham will have another go, but after a light fracas outside the area, a free kick is given to Leicester. Updated
 62 min: Harry Kane is slipped in by Lamela and very nearly makes it 1-0, but is thwarted by the crossbar amid roars from the crowd. I’m talking thisclose. Seems like either side is on the verge of a breakthrough here. Updated
 61 min: A defensive blunder by Walker leaves Vardy all alone with Lloris in the area, but the keeper is magnificent in sprinting off his line to break up the play without fouling the attacker and giving the penalty. Well played. 
 60 min: One hour in and scoreless still. Tottenham have won a free kick but Lamela’s attempt from distance is cleared by Kante. 
 58 min: Simpson muscled down from behind by Kane and Leicester will have a free kick from 40 yards or so. Mahrez takes it but it’s deflected wide for a Leicester throw-in. 
 56 min: Lamela very nearly makes it 1-0! The sequence started with Davis sprinting with the ball up the left side before centering to Lamela, who nearly dumped it into the back of the goal but missed wide. Groans from the crowd. A corner to Tottenham but it’s easily cleared. Updated
 54 min: Eriksen’s free kick is fired squarely into Leicester’s three-man wall and out for a throw-in. A wasteful attempt, that. Particularly given Spurs’ height advantage in the area, which was apparent. 
 53 min: Kane surging up the right with the ball and fouled from behind by Morgan. The contact appeared incidental but the call is fair. Free kick to Tottenham from a dangerous area. Updated
 52 min: Now it’s a fourth corner in three minutes for Leicester. The ball is sent to the far post, but ultimately cleared. Tottenham now on the counter-attack. 
 51 min: Leicester plays it short again: Albrighton to Vardy to Okazaki, whose close-range shot is deflected out for yet another corner. 
 50 min: The corner is played short: Fuchs to Drinkwater, whose right-footed attempt is deflected off a Tottenham player and out for another corner. 
 49 min: It’s the left-footed Fuchs who takes it, but it’s cracked directly into the wall. Seconds later it’s out past the goal line and Leicester will have a corner. 
 48 min: Mahrez blows past Kane but Kane drags him down from behind and is rightly whistled for a foul. Leicester with a free kick here. 
 47 min: The ball is played toward the far post where it falls into a patch of unoccupied space. A gaggle of players close on it quickly but it’s Fuchs whose there first to clear it. 
 46 min: Another rapid start by Spurs. Alli with a quick run with the ball up the left side, but his cross is deflected out by Simpson. Moments later Tottenham win a corner. Updated
 That’s all for the first half, a taut affair between two evenly matched sides. A quick look at the stat sheet would give the edge to Spurs, yet only one category truly matters at the end of the day. Tottenham v Leicester City30min Possession 16min10 Shots 37 Shots on target 17 Corners 25 Tackles 122 Offsides 15 Fouls 40 Yellow cards 00 Red cards 0 
 45 min: The fourth official signals for one minute of stoppage time. Pace has slowed a bit over the past few minutes. 