Ben Child 
 The Italian docudrama Caesar Must Die from octogenarian sibling film-makers Paolo and Vittorio Taviani won the top prize at the Berlin film festival on Saturday. The film follows real-life inmates of a high-security jail as they rehearse for a performance of William Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. Caesar Must Die had been among the favourites to win the Golden Bear, though the film was not universally praised. Filmed at the Rebibbia jail on the outskirts of Rome, it is the Tavianis' biggest festival triumph since Padre Padrone took the Palme d'Or at Cannes 35 years ago. "We hope that when the film is released to the general public that cinemagoers will say to themselves or even those around them... that even a prisoner with a dreadful sentence, even a life sentence, is and remains a human being," said Paolo Taviani, 80. His brother Vittorio, 82, read out the names of the prisoners who took part in the film. Critics praised the performances of inmates, many of whom are serving life sentences for murder or mafia-linked crimes, but German website Der Spiegel said victory for Caesar Must Die amounted to a "very conservative selection". The Hollywood Reporter called it "a major upset". British director Mike Leigh led the judging panel. Other winners included Just the Wind, about a spree of gypsy killings in Hungary, which took the Jury Grand Prix prize, and best actress for 14-year-old Rachel Mwanza from the Democratic Republic of Congo, who made her film debut in the hard-hitting drama War Witch, about a young girl who is raped and brutalised by African soldiers in an unnamed conflict. Meanwhile Denmark's Mikkel Boe Folsgaard took best actor for his turn in costume drama A Royal Affair, which also won best screenplay, and the best director award went to Germany's Christian Petzold for Barbara, about a woman attempting to escape her life in communist East Germany. Festival director Dieter Kosslick oversaw an event which attracted Hollywood stars such as Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt and Twilight's Robert Pattinson, while The Iron Lady's Meryl Streep accepted an award recognising her five-decade career last week. The announcement of this year's top prizes brought the 10-day event, the largest publicly attended film festival in the world, to a close. Last year's Golden Bear winner, Iran's A Separation, is nominated for two Oscars at the Academy Awards ceremony later this month. Elsewhere, jockeying for position ahead of the world's best-known film awards ceremony continued as the Writer's Guild of America handed its top screenwriting gongs to Woody Allen for Midnight in Paris and Alexander Payne for The Descendants. Allen won best original screenplay for his fantastical tale of romance and time-travel in the French capital, while Payne took best adapted screenplay alongside Jim Rash and Nat Faxon for his George Clooney-starring family drama. Both films are in contention for similar prizes at the Oscars, and the WGA ceremony is considered a useful arbiter of Academy success. 