The high court judges delivered the verdict that parliament alone has the power to trigger article 50, the formal process for leaving the European Union 
Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent 
 The three judges who delivered the pivotal Brexit judgment included the most senior in England and Wales. The lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, is head of the judiciary. He is a forthright defender of judicial independence and a supporter of modernisation in the courts where cases are still conducted from behind mounds of files and paperwork.  Born in Wales – he remains a supporter of courts outside London – Lord Thomas was educated at Rugby school and Trinity Hall, Cambridge, where he read law. He started off practising in commercial cases, became a QC and an assistant recorder (part-time judge) in 1984. In 1996, Thomas was appointed as a high court judge. From 1998 to 2001 he was one of the presiding judges of the Wales and Chester Circuit. He joined the court of appeal in 2003 and became lord chief justice in 2013, succeeding Lord Judge. Under the Constitutional Reform Act 2005, the lord chief justice has 400 statutory duties. Key responsibilities include representing the views of the judiciary of England and Wales to parliament and government. He appears before parliamentary select committees to answer questions about the state of the justice system. In his annual report to parliament, issued this week, Thomas expressed concern about the danger of excessive court fees driving away international legal business from London and preventing access to justice. The newly appointed master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton is the second most senior judge in England and Wales and head of the civil – as opposed to the criminal – division of the judiciary. A former Olympic-level fencer, he is Britain’s first openly gay senior judge. He was educated at St Paul’s school in west London and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.  Etherton became a high court judge in 2001 and joined the court of appeal in 2008. The post of the master of the rolls dates back to at least the 13th century. His appointment took effect last month, following the retirement of Lord Dyson.  Lord Justice Sales was appointed as lord justice of appeal in 2014. He is an expert in constitutional law and formerly practised in the same set of chambers as Tony Blair. Educated at the Royal grammar school, Guildford, and Churchill College, Cambridge, he was called to the bar in 1985 and appointed first Treasury junior counsel – a position traditionally known as “Treasury Devil”, in 1997. He became a QC in 2006 and continued to act for the government in the renamed post of first Treasury counsel (Common Law) until his appointment as a high court judge in 2008.  Sales has been a member of the Competition Appeal Tribunal since 2008 and was appointed as vice-president of the Investigatory Powers Tribunal, which deals with complaints about the intelligence services and surveillance, in 2014. 