An ailing Mao Zedong was presiding over the last knockings of the Cultural Revolution when the era of modern summitry was launched in a French chateau just outside Paris in late 1975. It’s a reasonable bet that none of those present at Rambouillet envisaged that 43 years later the annual get-together for their successors would be in Hangzhou. The emergence of China as an economic superpower with its distinctive breed of state capitalism is a striking example of what has changed in the past four decades. Back then, the six developed nations represented at Rambouillet dominated the global economy. These days it would be inconceivable to hold a meeting to discuss trade, currencies or climate change without the Chinese, the Indians, the Brazilians, the Russians and the Saudis. The G6 has become the G20. But while the guest list has expanded, the agenda has remained similar. The inspiration for Giscard d’Estaing’s fireside chat in 1975 was the stagflation unleashed by the weakening of the post second world war boom, triggered by soaring oil prices. The summit was an attempt to reinvigorate the full employment model that had delivered record levels of growth over the previous quarter of a century, but it proved impossible to return to business as usual. Time was up for a generation represented by Harold Wilson and Gerald Ford, both attendees at Rambouillet. The G20 was born in equally difficult circumstances. It met for the first time in Washington a couple of months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, just after the US had voted for Barack Obama to succeed George W Bush. As in the 1970s, the prevailing economic model had suffered system failure. This time the problem was caused by unfettered capital flows and over-exposed banks. Again the imperative was to return to business as usual as quickly as possible. Again, the attempt has been unsuccessful. The extent of the failure was highlighted by the International Monetary Fund in the report it prepared for the Hangzhou G20. “The weak outlook can further reduce incentives to invest and slow down trade, adding to demand shortfalls and limiting the room for productivity gains going forward. At the same time, income growth has not only been meagre, it has bypassed low-income earners in many countries, raising anxiety about globalisation and worsening the climate for political reform.” You don’t need the skills of a Bletchley Park cryptographer to get the gist. The fund’s message is that there is a lack of investment, a lack of good, well-paid jobs, and a growing disenchantment with the status quo. Hence Donald Trump and his plan to build a wall along the Rio Grande. Hence Brexit, the rise of the Five Star Movement in Italy, and the support for Marine Le Pen in France. To be sure, these trends can be over-stated. Governments of the centre-right and centre-left are still in power in Germany, Italy and France. The polls suggest Trump is going to lose to Hillary Clinton, and Le Pen is unlikely to be the next president of France. Greece’s experiment with the radical left has not been an unalloyed success. But the fund is still right to be concerned. Globalisation was sold to voters in the west as a system that would deliver greater prosperity for all through more open markets. Yet as the IMF noted, the income for top earners in many developed countries has been rising while remaining stagnant for those at the bottom. The customers are not getting what it says on the tin. In his new book*, Guy Standing says it is a myth that the political and economic changes of the 1970s created free markets. Instead, he argues, globalisation has hastened the development of rigged markets dominated by “a plutocracy and plutocratic corporations linked to concentrated financial capital that are able to gain increasing amounts of rental income by virtue of their wealth. Meanwhile wages are stagnating”. Interestingly, this critique has echoes of another feature of the 1970s – the Alternative Economic Strategy (AES) developed by Tony Benn and his allies on the left of the Labour party. The main thrust of the strategy was that Britain’s economic problems stemmed from the size and power of multinational corporations able to exploit their market power by pushing up prices while at the same time under-investing. Rejecting the idea that Keynesian demand management was sufficient to tackle what Benn called the “spiral of decline” in manufacturing, the AES provided a radical alternative. It involved public ownership of a company in each key sector of the economy, planning agreements with big private-sector companies, price controls, industrial democracy, curbs on imports and withdrawal from what was then the European Economic Community. While Benn and his allies were putting together the strategy, Mrs Thatcher was putting together what might be called the “alternative alternative economy strategy”. There was agreement between Benn and Thatcher that British capitalism was in a bad way and a shared derision for the attempts to fix it by the Wilson and Callaghan governments. But there was disagreement about the remedy: Thatcher wanted to sweep away the physical and financial controls without which Benn’s siege economy would not have been viable, and her idea of industrial democracy was to limit the power of the trade unions and restore the “right to manage”. Thatcher’s opponents inside the Conservative party were as dismissive of her ideas as Benn’s enemies inside the Labour party were of his. But only one of the alternative economic strategies was ever implemented, and it was not the left’s. Decades later, there are again competing alternative economic strategies. On the right, Theresa May’s plan to make Brexit work involves some themes familiar to those in the 1970s: workers on boards, an industrial strategy, the need for more public investment. On the left, the Labour party is led by Jeremy Corbyn, who is as critical of Labour’s handling of the economy under Blair and Brown as the Bennites were of the policies pursued by Wilson and Callaghan. If Corbyn’s approach has echoes of the AES that’s because the problems identified in the 1970s – hollowing out of manufacturing, under-investment and the power of multinational corporations – remain unresolved. Of course, pursuing an AES in the 2010s is a lot more difficult than it was in the 1970s. Globalisation has seen to that. It is also possible that the AES will be rejected by voters just as it was in 1983. But it is important to understand why Corbyn sees a role for nationalising the train operating companies, why he would set up a national investment bank, and why he retains a strong degree of Euroscepticism. His critique, that there is something dysfunctional about modern industrial capitalism, has not changed since he was a supporter of Benn in the 1970s and 1980s. And, after a decade of crisis, recession and austerity, that’s perhaps unsurprising. * The Corruption of Capitalism by Guy Standing (Biteback, £17.99). To order a copy for £14.75, go to bookshop. or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99. 