This film – about the aerospace and defence business, not the luxury car manufacturer of the same name – would be awkward for any British firm. It will be exponentially more so for the British firm that prides itself most ostentatiously on a reputation for stereotypically British decency, as Panorama investigates whether the growth it has enjoyed in recent decades may have been facilitated by backhanders distributed by middlemen who sell Rolls-Royce products overseas. Andrew Mueller  Joanne Froggatt stars in this impressively grubby two-part rendering of the story of Mary Ann Cotton, a 19th-century bigamist, fraudster and serial poisoner whose tormented life ended at the gallows in 1873. Tonight, the murderer as a young woman: refreshingly, at this stage at least, Cotton isn’t portrayed as a latently berserk monster-in-embryo, simply as a person driven to distraction by a mixture of poverty, bereavement and general misery. Phil Harrison In 1973, Carmen Callil, imbued with “can-do-ism” and inspired by Spare Rib, founded feminist publishers Virago Press. Its importance in bringing underappreciated texts into the light can hardly be overerestimated. Those who were there tell the imprint’s story. Top moments arrive via a gloriously acidic Margaret Atwood, on in-fighting at the then cash-strapped Virago: “The smaller the cheese, the more ferocious the mice.” Jonathan Wright What does TV’s alpha male mentalist have in store for Halloween? Details are scarce but even though Brown’s projects are generally underpinned by redemptive and, eventually, proudly rational foundations, he isn’t afraid to take his subjects to the dark side. Tonight, three horror fans find the boundaries between fact and fiction blurring uncomfortably as Brown offers (or should that be inflicts?) a Halloween to remember. PH Mandatory martial arts set-pieces and bizarrely strangled accents feature strongly in this ongoing action series, which, if its makers’ prayers are answered, will take several years to unfold. Set in an indeterminate era in which a gramophone playing old rhythm-and-blues records is apparently a novelty, this week sees its competing barons continue to war and plot, with prodigy MK now becoming dangerously powerful and Quinn setting up a meeting with a rival. David Stubbs A very silly title for this otherwise engaging film. Neil Pearson tells the story of Kahane, a Mancunian who made his home in the bohemian Paris of the 1920s, failing at novel-writing but succeeding in publishing. Mild smut was his bread and butter, but his Obelisk press was also the home of major writers – DH Lawrence; Henry Miller – whose work strayed into what was then thought obscene. John Robinson Two chilling items for a themed Halloween night: first up, an investigation into online urban legends presented by Vick Hope – and in particular the Slender Man mythos, an internet-based fan-fiction meme that inspired two 12-year-old girls in Milwaukee to stab their friend. Could such a thing happen again? It’s followed by new drama series Channel Zero, a horror anthology based on stories uploaded by the public to the Creepypasta website. Ali Catterall Point Blank, (John Boorman, 1967), 11.35pm, TCM Boorman’s first Hollywood venture, from Richard Stark’s hang-tough tale, is part arthouse feature, part thriller, starring Lee Marvin. His Walker is an old-school crook, double-crossed by partner Reese (John Vernon) and left for dead on Alcatraz, but returning to seek vengeance and his loot from the Organisation. Aided by Angie Dickinson, he moves through a gleaming LA, shadow-like in dark suit, implacable and violent to the “respectable” modern mobsters. Paul Howlett Test cricket: Bangladesh v England Coverage of the fifth day from Mirpur. 3.45am Sky Sports 2 Tennis: The Paris Masters The first day at the AccorHotels Arena in Paris, featuring matches from the first round. 10am, Sky Sports 3 Premier League football: Stoke City v Swansea City Two of the season’s slow starters meet in the Potteries. 7pm, Sky Sports 1 • This article was amended on 31 October 2016. An earlier version said incorrectly that the subject of the BBC’s Panorama programme on Rolls-Royce was the luxury car manufacturer. It investigated Rolls-Royce plc which manufactures engines for the aviation and other industries. Rolls-Royce Motor Cars is a completely separate company. 