Ricky Gervais's Office character will strut his stuff on stage with the big boys, Lee Evans just wants to sit and paint, and we enjoy some scientific one-liners from our readers In today's comedy scene, Norman Wisdom's influence is felt most keenly in the performances of Lee Evans The presenter's BBC1 show will be back later this month after his three-month suspension following the 'Sachsgate' row. By Leigh Holmwood Nottingham ArenaEvery gag is elevated by the gurning standup's physicality and gusto, says Brian Logan Plymouth Pavilions, Sat 30; Trent FM Arena, Nottingham, Tue 2 to Sep 6 Theatre: Rory Kinnear flourishes as Sir Fopling Flutter in Nicholas Hytner's Restoration revival, Eve Best remakes Rosalind and Lee Evans takes on Pinter, says Susannah Clapp. 11.30am: Lee Evans is to star in ITV1's new adaptation of HG Wells' The History of Mr Polly. By Tara Conlan. Plus: Wesley Snipes sues New York City Nathan Lane and Lee Evans have rightly been praised, but it is Conleth Hill who steals the show in Mel Brooks's The Producers He's a successful comic making it big in serious movies. But Lee Evans still thinks he's an idiot, finds Aida Edemariam Wembley Arena, London  Lee Evans has made an incredibly successful career out of his elastic face and rubbery body - but, finds Simon Hattenstone, his shy, bumbling persona is more than just a stage act. Remember the bad old days of British film, when Steptoe and Son, Morecambe and Wise, and Man About the House ruled at the box office? Well now TV transfers are all the rage again, as Ali G, Steve Coogan and Lee Evans prepare for release. Stuart Jeffries wonders if this time they'll get it right Plus:  Lee Evans joins bumpy comedy; Aardman in the race with The Tortoise and the Hare; Wes Craven takes on Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde An Adidas "ad" starring Lee Evans was shown on the BBC recently, but most viewers wouldn't have noticed. Belinda Archer explains why it could herald a whole new era in advertising He's done Hollywood movies, turned down millions to star in more and just achieved his lifelong ambition - a BBC1 sitcom.  