Jacques Peretti skims the surface of the scandal that is outsourcing. Having been told by the government to make savings, councils have given buckets of public cash to management consultants. Peretti discovers that the contracts are usually confidential, and he often doesn’t quite join the dots to prove the money was wasted before skipping on to his next case study. But perhaps this will prompt viewers to investigate more deeply themselves. Jack Seale What do our faces reveal? Lots, suggests this documentary, which explores how our fizzogs give away secrets relating to intelligence, sexuality and aggressiveness. We also learn how expressions shape emotions, whether Botox makes you feel less stressed, and whether men suffer from “resting bitch face”. Plus: Tinchy Stryder and Katie Piper discuss their faces and Stephen K Amos meets the Metropolitan police’s “super-recognisers”. Jonathan Wright New run of the series in which a group of single people trust science to find them a match, then meet their spouse-to-be for the first time on their wedding day. Wait: it’s not as ridiculous as it sounds. As the first pair are set up, the bride chooses her dress and a panel of relationship experts give both sides a pep talk. When the wedding day arrives, you can almost feel the nerves as the sweet groom awaits his other half. Hannah Verdier  The great, underused Con O’Neill returns to primetime after his role in Happy Valley last year. In the second series of this ensemble anthology show, he stars as Joe, a popular manager at a sportswear wholesaler. After an accident at work, he returns home to find everything not quite as he expects it, setting in motion a series of events that uncovers a wealth of family secrets and abuse. O’Neill excels as a workplace-banter legend who’s pushed to the edge. John Robinson In June, St Thomas’ hospital unveiled what is thought to be the first statue in Britain to honour a black woman. She was unarguably a deserving case: Mary Seacole, the Jamaican nurse who made her own way to the battlefields of the Crimean war to tend the wounded. This film sees David Harewood follow the progress of the statue’s creation by sculptor Martin Jennings and tells the story of Seacole’s extraordinary life in parallel. Andrew Mueller Pablo Escobar was regarded by some in Colombia as a Robin Hood figure thanks to his charitable works. However, he was also among the most ruthless, murderous drug traffickers of all time, thriving on the Hollywood cocaine frenzy of the 1980s. He even managed to acquire political power to further his interests before finally being gunned down. This documentary features interviews with law-enforcement agents and a former henchman, too. David Stubbs  US writer and actor Issa Rae leads this HBO comedy about the everyday challenges of two twentysomething black girlfriends. Focusing on the experiences of Molly (Yvonne Orji) and Rae’s character – also called Issa – rather than merely using them to add a veneer of diversity, this is a rare and hilariously executed proposition. In this second episode, fictive Issa tries to make a decision about her faltering relationship and Molly treats herself. Hannah J Davies 47 Ronin (Carl Rinsch, 2013), 9pm, Film4 Keanu Reeves’s wacky samurai saga is supposedly based on a true, 18th-century story, albeit with added CGI dragons and sorcery. Keanu’s Kai is a heck of a swordsman, but, being mixed race, has trouble cutting it with the aristocratic samurai – until he joins the 46 ronin who are out to avenge the death of their master. Director Rinsch’s $175m adventure is a pretty blunt instrument, apart from some eerie special effects. Paul Howlett WTA tennis: the Luxembourg Open Day two’s play in the International Series event from Kockelscheuer. Noon, Eurosport 1 Champions League football: Leicester City v FC Copenhagen The Danes visit the Foxes. 7pm, BT Sport 3 Champions League football: Bayer Leverkusen v Tottenham Hotspur Spurs take a testing trip to the BayArena. 7pm, BT Sport 2 