 I have been trying to concentrate on the tennis but it is not easy, with the Guardian's invaluable part-work, 1,000 Films to See Before You Die, sitting on the desk in front of me in silent reproach. How, I keep asking myself, have I managed to get this far in life without ever having seen Edmund Goulding's "criminally neglected 1947 carnival noir" Nightmare Alley? Criminal neglect, I suppose; but that is about to change. Now I have the Guardian's recommendations, I can catch up on all those classics either ignored or wilfully spurned over the years. I have been through the list from Ace In The Hole to Zulu via The Ice Storm (all ticked off), and reckon to have seen around 600 of the thousand, which, the numerate among you may already have spotted, leaves me 400 films to see before I die. This is a worry. Though not a qualified actuary, never having owned sufficient propelling pencils, I reckon, based on family history and so on, to have about 20 years left, 25 maximum if I stick with the cherry tomatoes and low-fat spread. This means watching around 20 films a year, most of which are about as likely to turn up at the Wakefield Cineworld as Stella McCartney at a hog roast. Time will, therefore, have to be spent tracking down such films as Olivier Assayas's "wry, genre-hopping, postmodern" Irma Vep - which unaccountably passed me by in 1996 - in the course of which yet more wry, spry and dry masterpieces will be released. Like painting the Forth Bridge of urban myth, the job will never be finished. I have nightmares of the Grim Reaper arriving to do his famous grim reaping, and me impotently wailing: "Not yet, not yet, I haven't seen The Colour of Pomegranates yet." Not only may I have to cross the River Styx cinematically half-done as it were, but also, as a product of that brief, fallow period for British tennis, running roughly from Fred Perry's triumph in 1936 to the present day, without ever seeing a British man winning at Wimbledon. The BBC, whose coverage each year is built round the quaint notion of possible British success, must worry about our continued hopelessness, although this year they seemed happy just to shrug and say: "What the heck, we'll always have Ginny." In this, they were excused by the fact that Virginia Wade's win in the ladies' singles was exactly 30 years ago, in 1977. Two other notable Wimbledon anniversaries were also being marked this year - and, boy, does the BBC like to do the marking: the first televised Wimbledon, in 1937, and the first match to be broadcast in colour, Roger Taylor versus Cliff Drysdale in 1967. If nostalgia is an illness, the BBC is a terminal patient. Literally, of course, it is a sickness; algia meaning pain, and nost meaning an inability to look at footage of 1970s football hooligans to a soundtrack of Anarchy In The UK without becoming inexplicably filmy-eyed. The punk footage appeared in a neat little film celebrating Virginia's win, in what was also something of an annus mirabilis for presenter Sue Barker, who reached a Wimbledon semi-final, where she was unexpectedly beaten. Who could have thought, looking at that shy, 21-year-old English rose from Devon explaining her defeat, that she would go on to present coverage of Olympic and Commonwealth Games, win a lucrative contract advertising All-Bran, and make something of a career out of pretending to find Ally McCoist funny, all without significantly changing her hairstyle? Despite the fact that the 30-year-old footage acted as a subtle reminder of how little time remains to watch the Guardian's 1,000 great movies, I enjoyed the feature. The archive clips were framed by Sue and Virginia walking along the seafront at Eastbourne, swapping memories of 1977. Later, according to Sue, they sat in deck chairs "like a couple of old dears". There seemed genuine warmth between the former competitors, something tennis engenders possibly more than any other sport. This was particularly apparent in the last years of the amateur era, when Drysdale and Taylor met in that first match televised in colour. As Taylor, reunited with his opponent and former doubles partner, told Sue, the players had no retinue in those days, so it was the other players who became your family. If a victor went out for a few drinks at the end of play to celebrate, he went with the vanquished. Sir David Attenborough and David Vine were among BBC veterans reliving the middle Saturday of Wimbledon in 1967, when the nation marvelled that "you could now tell whether the players were drinking orange or lemon barley water" while turning up the saturation on their new colour sets so that the grass turned a hideous emerald green. Watching all the nostalgia features on Saturday afternoon - there were Bjorn Borg and Billie Jean King compilations as well - the thought occurred that Wimbledon on TV is almost more fun when it rains. It certainly took my mind off how I might get to see Mikhail Kalatozishvili's 1954 epic, The Cranes Are Flying. Finally, a note from our Literally Watch desk. Sue Barker: "Britain's No1 woman Katy O'Brien was quite literally thumped by the teenager from the Netherlands, 6-0, 6-1." Well, it rather contradicts what I was saying about the camaraderie between tennis players. 