 Murray calls Lorenzi “an extremely solid player” who “doesn’t give you many cheap points” during the on-court interview with Brad Gilbert. The world No2 says he was trying to go for cheap points early on, but only when he slowed things down became more patient did the errors go down and winners go up. The reigning Wimbledon champion now advances to a fourth-round meeting with Grigor Dimitrov, who defeated João Sousa earlier today. 
 Fourth set: Murray 6-3 Lorenzi From 30-all, Murray tries an audacious cross-court lob and misses to give Lorenzi game point. But Murray’s return winner moves it to deuce and now he’s two points from the last 16. A double fault for Lorenzi! Oh dear. And now the brave Italian is match point down. He saves it when Murray sprays a backhand wide. But now another double fault! A second match point for Murray and this time Lorenzo goes wide with a backhand and it’s finished. Murray wins 7-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3! 
 Fourth set: *Murray 4-3 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Three quick points by Lorenzi to move ahead 40-love. Murray pulls two back but the Italian gets the hold when Murray pushes a return long. He challenges it but doesn’t seem to have much confidence in it considering he’s practically sat down before the ruling plays on the screen. 
 Fourth set: Murray 4-2 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) A whisper of a chance here for Lorenzo: Murray, serving at 30-15, double faults on back-to-back points to give the Italian a look at a break point. But he saves it with a forehand volley winner and moments later earns the hold with another winner off the forehand side. 
 Fourth set: *Murray 3-2 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Lorenzi matches with a hold of his own, closing it out with an ace, only his second of the afternoon. 
 Fourth set: *Murray 2-1 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Lorenzi still fighting. A running winner makes it 40-15. Murray crushes a return winner to bring it to 40-30, but Lorenzi is able to pull out the hold to get on the board. The improvement in Murray’s return game since the second set has really made a difference.  
 Fourth set: Murray 2-0 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Not sure how Lorenzi is still standing after playing the longest match of the tournament roughly a day and a half ago. He grinds out a few points to earn a fifth break-point chance – he’s a perfect four-for-four so far – but this time Murray saves it with an ace. Moments later he’s out with the hold and has consolidated the break to go up two games to love in the fourth. 
 Fourth set: *Murray 1-0 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Lorenzi could really use an easy hold to open the fourth and for a moment – at 40-15 – it looks like he’ll get it. But then he double faults, Murray hits a backhand winner and he’s forced into an error on the backhand side to go break point down. He moves it back to deuce, but Murray hits another backhand winner to earn a second break-point look. This time the Scot makes good on it as Lorenzi tries a lob winner that sails just past the baseline. Incredibly, Murray has hit nearly five times as many winners (43) as Lorenzi (nine). 
 Third set: Murray 6-2 Lorenzi Two easy forehand winners for Murray. He then misses on a backhand but hits another forehand winner to set up a pair of set points. Closes it out on a 108mph ace. After a second-set scare, things seem to have settled down. He’s one set from the last 16. 
 Third set: *Murray 5-2 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Hard to imagine why Lorenzi would empty the reserves here, down two breaks with the crucial fourth set to come. But he fights to 30-all, then saves a set point to move it to deuce en route to the hold. Now it’s on Murray to serve it out. 
 Third set: Murray 5-1 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Well, that was quick. A love hold in barely a minute and now Lorenzi will serve to stay in the third.  Updated
 Third set: *Murray 4-1 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Lorenzi wins the opening point but then drops four straight points on a torrent of errors with one forehand winner by Murray mixed in. The world No2 is now two breaks up in the third. 
 As Lorenzi gets the blisters on his fingertips taped during the changeover (ouch!), I must say this is a quite good likeness of today’s underdog. Sketching Lorenzi instead of looking up at TV hoping Murray does better in 3rd set when I'm not watching #USOpen pic.twitter.com/dmkZabWXNf 
 Third set: *Murray 2-1 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) It briefly looks to have come undone for Lorenzi when he falls behind 15-40 on a few careless errors. But he saves a pair of break points, then a third after spraying a forehand from deuce, before serving out the game. Still needs to make up the early break to have a hope in this set. 
 Third set: Murray 2-0 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) From 15-all, Murray dials in back-to-back aces before closing out the hold to consolidate the break. A positive start to this third set for the Scot. 
 Third set: *Murray 1-0 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Murray with the early break and the stat lines are practically as even as they come. They’ve both won 13 games, they both have four breaks of serve and Murray has won one more point overall. Updated
 Here’s a reader prediction and not a particularly pleasant one. @BryanAGraham that demented Banshee that Andy turns in2 when this stuff happens is going to make an appearance MMMM(MurraysMidMatchMeltdown) 
 Second set: Murray 5-7 Lorenzi Murray nets a forehand, then nets a running backhand on perhaps the point of the tournament and all of a sudden Murray is behind love-30 and two points from dropping the set. Murray pulls one back but then pushes another forehand into the net and all of a sudden Lorenzi has a pair of set points. He only needs one! Murray blasts a forehand long and we’re level at a set apiece! The crowd is really getting behind the Italian underdog here. Updated
 Second set: *Murray 5-6 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) A hard-won hold for Lorenzi but he’s pulled it out and now Murray will serve to stay in the second set. The 40,780 fans on site for today’s day session is a single-session tournament record, the USTA tells us. 
 Second set: Murray 5-5 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Murray wins three straight points from love-15 down, but then mixes in a couple of errors as Lorenzi moves it to deuce – and within two points of taking the second set. But Murray delivers a forehand winner for game points, then watches as Lorenzi nets a backhand from the baseline. Murray moved Lorenzi very well in that game, especially on the decisive point. 
 Second set: *Murray 4-5 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) As your humble narrator contends with technical difficulties regarding the Wi-Fi, Murray has come to life. He held on his serve to close the margin to 3-5, then broke Lorenzi during a game that included a hyperkinetic 42-shot rally to move back onto level terms here in the second.  
 Second set: *Murray 2-5 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) And Lorenzi backs up the break, putting extra pressure on Murray, who is serving to stay in the second. Updated
 Second set: Murray 2-4 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Oh dear. Hard times for Murray as he falls behind on his serve with a trio of unforced errors (all off the backhand side) and then double faults on break point to give Lorenzi the crucial advantage. 
 Second set: Murray 2-2 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Murray follows it up with an even easier love hold – capped by consecutive aces – as the second set presses forward on a brisk pace. 
 Here’s an email from reader Ian Copestake: Murray needs to spend two minutes being starred at by Lendl. The look of pity in his eyes should be enough to shame him out of his stupour. 
 Second set: Murray 1-1 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Just when it looked as if the floodgates were about to open, Lorenzi rattles off four straight points to break Murray at love. OK, then.  
 Second set: *Murray 1-0 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Murray wins the first two points on Lorenzi’s serve before closing out a statement-making break to open the second. He is now 12-for-12 on net approaches. 
 First-set tiebreaker: Murray 7-4 Lorenzi Murray serving to start the tiebreaker but he commits an error as Lorenzo immediately moves up a mini-break. But Murray wins the next two on Lorenzo’s serve to move ahead 2-1 with two serves coming. Lorenzi wins the next for two-all and they’re back on serve as Murray makes it 3-2, but a Murray backhand winner on the Italian’s serve makes it 4-2 to the Scot as they change sides. Lorenzi closes it to 4-3 but Murray grinds out three straight points to earn a pair of set points. He needs only one as he closes it with a blistering forehand to take the first in exactly one hour.  
 First set: Murray 6-6 Lorenzi Two quick points for Lorenzi, the second a thudding forehand winner into the open court. Another Murray error makes it 40-love. He closes it to 40-30 with his 15th and 16th winners of the day, but another unforced error gives Lorenzi the hold. We’re headed to a first-set breaker. 
 First set: Murray 6-5 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) An easy hold for Murray capped by an emphatic service winner as Lorenzi continues his error-strewn play. Now the Italian will serve to force a first-set tiebreaker. 
 First set: *Murray 5-5 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) A pair of unforced errors by Lorenzi, only his eighth and ninth of the afternoon, puts him in a quick love-30 hole. Murray gives a point back but another unforced error by the Italian gives Murray double break point. He only needs one and Lorenzi commits yet another unforced error to break back for five-all in the opener. The clean tennis the Italian had been playing all day abandoned him at the worst time. 
 First set: Murray 4-5 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Some pressure for Murray as he falls behind 15-30. He moves it to 30-all with a forehand winner, but commits his 19th and 20th unforced errors on the following points to give Lorenzi the break! The 34-year-old Italian, who is coming off a five-hour match, will now serve for the opening set. That’s only the second time Murray’s been broken in the tournament. Updated
 First set: *Murray 4-4 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) An easy hold at love for Lorenzi. Murray losing an uncharacteristic volume of points on the return. They’re even on total points won at 24 apiece, but 16 of Lorenzi’s have come on unforced errors by the Scot. 
 First set: Murray 4-3 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) A quick one for Murray who holds at love, mixing in his first ace of the afternoon along the way. 
 First set: *Murray 3-3 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Murray wins the first two points – the second on a taxing 28-stroke rally – for love-30. A half-chance at a break here. Lorenzi wins the next two points for move it to 30-all, but he blinks on another long rally – this one 24 shots – to give Murray his first break-point chance. Lorenzi saves it with a gorgeous touch drop shot. Another error by Lorenzi gives Murray a second break opportunity, but the Italian saves that one too. Third and fourth chances yield the same results, but Lorenzi finally puts a few points together and escapes with the hold.  
 First set: Murray 3-2 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Murray closes out the easy hold with his sixth and seventh winners of the afternoon. Seems to have found a bit more consistency on his serve now. 
 First set: *Murray 2-2 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Another drama-free hold for the Italian, who sprints out to a 40-love lead before earning the hold. Lorenzi playing mostly error-free tennis early on while Murray has come out somewhat flat. 
 First set: Murray 2-1 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Another double fault by Murray and Lorenzi is able to get it to 30-all. Murray, whose serve has been erractic in the early going, then lucks out with a netcord winner before pounding a forehand winner down the line for the hold. 
 First set: *Murray 1-1 Lorenzi (*denotes next server) Three quick points by the Italian on his serve. A momentary blink with a double fault, but he recovers with a 108mph ace to seal the easy hold. 
 First set: Murray 1-0 Lorenzi* (*denotes next server) Murray won the toss and will serve first. A lengthy baseline rally ends when Lorenzi nets a forehand. Murray double faults to make it 15-all, but a pair of winners from the forehand side followed by a backhand forced error gives him a stress-free hold to start things off. 
 Welcome to Arthur Ashe Stadium for today’s third-round tilt between Andy Murray and Paolo Lorenzi. The players are just out on court to begin their warm-ups. While we wait, here are a few facts about today’s matchup. 
 Bryan will be here shortly. In the meantime, here’s Kevin Mitchell’s lookahead to today’s match. It is not the US Open without a storm, on the court or in the air, and Andy Murray is a player who knows how to handle both better than most. When he was on his way to winning the title here in 2012, his fellow Scots Alex Ferguson and Sean Connery famously invaded his press conference in celebratory mood after he had bamboozled Tomas Berdych in the semi-final, a match in which a fierce gale wrecked the Czech’s high ball-toss. “Scotland invented the world,” Ferguson declared. “Today we invented the wind.” The air whipped less frenetically in the final but was still enough to disconcert Novak Djokovic, while Murray held his nerve for his breakthrough major. “There’s certain winds that I like,” Murray laughed moments after moving smoothly through to the third round, where he will play the Italian Paolo Lorenzi, who beat Gilles Simon in four hours and 54 minutes late on Thursday, the longest match of the tournament so far. Murray spent less than half that time beating Marcel Granollers in straight sets earlier in the evening. 