The three ministers sharing Chevening House should be able to rub along together fine, as long as they stick to these straightforward guidelines 
Tim Dowling 
 The use of Chevening House by more than one minister is by no means unprecedented – during the coalition, foreign secretaries were obliged to share with the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg. But three ministers under the same grace-and-favour roof could present real difficulties unless certain protocols are observed. We’ve updated the basic rules to make the ministerial house-share an experience as enriching as it is economical. 1. Where possible, the three ministers should use the house on different weekends, according to the rota drawn up by the cabinet office. On those occasions when the nation’s diplomatic needs require all three ministers to be in residence at the same time, the pool hours will be as follows: 9am-12pm, Liam Fox; 12pm to 3pm, Boris Johnson; 3pm to 4pm, Free swim; 4pm to closing, David Davis. 2. Label your dignitaries. It’s easy to imagine the worst happening when a guest of the secretary of state for exiting the European Union is mistaken for a guest of the secretary of state for international trade: before you know it somebody accidentally agrees to the free movement of people just to flog 4,000 Mondeos. The “Hello, my name is” badges in the basket by the east entrance aren’t just there for show. We also have colour-coded bathrobes for the mornings. 3. If you make your way up the main staircase to the second floor, then turn left, then right, then left again, then straight for a hundred yards or so, you will find a little storage area just across from bedroom 68. The box for the Wi-Fi is in there, and the password is on the bottom. If you have trouble connecting, sometimes unplugging the box for a few seconds helps, but please warn the others before you do it. This connection is for ministers of state only. Visiting dignitaries should use the Wi-Fi called “Chevening_secure123”, so we can spy on them. 4. If the lord privy seal has not shown you the correct procedure for using the Nespresso machine, then DO NOT USE THE NESPRESSO MACHINE. Also DO NOT LET THE FOREIGN SECRETARIES OF OTHER NATIONS USE THE NESPRESSO MACHINE, even if they claim to have one just like it at home. There are still stains on the ceiling from John Kerry’s last visit. 5. It’s a big lake, but there’s only one boat. Please leave it tied up by the little boathouse, not just floating in the middle. William Hague once spent a whole weekend chucking rocks at it to try and get it ashore. And that’s why Libya is like it is now. 6. A lot of foreign visitors will ask: “Why is it called a ha-ha?” By way of answering, please do not push them off the edge and shout: “Ha ha!” A broken ankle is never good for negotiations. 7. Don’t leave food in the maze. It’s tempting to have a go in the maze during champagne and nibbles receptions – guests love it – but if they leave their plates behind, it attracts foxes. Do you know what happens when a drunk Japanese diplomat who can’t find his way out of the maze meets three hungry foxes in the middle of the night? You would do if it weren’t for the Official Secrets Act. 