 According to Kevin Mitchell (Report, Sport, 18 June), "Isaac Newton would struggle to calculate the odds of John Isner and Nicolas Mahut being thrown together in the first round of Wimbledon a year after their historic match on court 18". I don't find the calculation at all difficult: admittedly, I'm a Cambridge mathematics professor, but then so was Newton. And the calculation is similar to one that we routinely ask our first-year undergraduates to do as part of their first course in probability. If there were no seeds, the calculation would be simplicity itself: there are 127 players whom Isner could face in the first round, one of whom is Mahut, so the probability is 1 in 127. The presence of seeds complicates the calculation, but only slightly: given that there are 32 seeds, each of whom faces a non-seed in the first round, and that Isner and Mahut are both unseeded, the probability is 64/96 x 1/95, which works out as 1 in 142.5. (The first fraction represents the probability that Isner is drawn in a position where he faces another non-seed; the second is the probability that Mahut is drawn as his opponent.) Thus, although this rematch is an improbable event, the odds against it are by no means astronomical. Peter Johnstone Cambridge • Your third leader (Unthinkable? No second serve, 18 June) did not recognise one benefit of unreturnable serves: the set soon ends with an exciting tie-break. A change that could easily be made would be to stop replaying serves that are ruled "net cords". Usually it is only the umpire who senses the serve touched the net, the man who kept his finger on it having been removed from danger. Net cords are not replayed during the rest of the game. Rodney Touche Holmwood, Surrey • Arguments in favour of banning the second serve in tennis are unsustainable. For professional tennis players, the second serve is an art form. For amateurs on the public tennis courts, it provides a second chance to get the ball in play and enjoy a decent rally. Hopefully the Lawn Tennis Association will ignore your proposal.   Alistair Budd London • Peter Preston (A middle-class malaise, 20 June) rightly highlights the reasons why we do not produce tennis champions. Throughout my son's junior tennis career in Surrey back in the 80s, he was one of the same eight boys ranked in the county from under 12 to under 18. Each year the names remained the same, only the positions changed. Six of those boys went to public schools. Unless the franchise is extended to inner-city children, I feel the current situation is unlikely to change. Gordon Jack Kingswood, Surrey 