 Preamble  The players are limbering up for what, on paper at least, looks set to be a hellishly close encounter. If you believe the bookies, the contest between the fifth seed (Roddick) and the fourth (Federer) is effectively a Wimbledon final that's rudely been shunted one round too early. That said, Philippoussis may argue against that line of thought come Sunday afternoon. First set: Roddick* 1-0 Federer Encouraging early signs for the Swiss, who at least manages to finesse a few of the bullet Roddick serves over the net. Even so, the American slams the door with the first of what will surely be numerous aces. First set: Roddick 1-1 Federer* A straightforward opening salvo from Federer. Meantime the ghost of Henman continues to haunt centre court. "Anyone noticed that Tim has always had exactly the same haircut," writes Ian. "Maybe this is the problem. Might I suggest a number one, a mohawk, a hairband? Anything! Just go grey at least!" And no, Kenny McLeod, there is no hyphen in preamble. Not in my magical world of spelling, at least. First set: Roddick* 2-1 Federer Roddick stalks off court looking a shade harrassed, having suffered something of a mauling, surviving a breakpoint and a series of lovely flowing passing shots from the Swiss. But his nose (or at least the bill of his cap) is still in front. "Am I the only one who sees a resemblance between Andy Roddick and Curious George?" wonders Sylvia Smith. Maybe so, Sylvia. He reminds me more of some support actor out of American Pie. The irascible jock with a penchant for toga parties, who gets his come-uppance in the final reel. First set: Roddick 2-2 Federer* Easy game for the Rog, who whips those weighty shots from the baseline. "Are you new?" quizzes Rebecca Lee "You ain't done Wimbledon yet? Or last year?" I am indeed as new as the proverbial pin, and as nervous as a kitten at Christmas.  "Anyway,"she continues, "I could hurl abuse at Tim Henman using you as my medium but instead I will just say I have won a bet (Henman lost me one yesterday) on the Phillipoussis match, and if Roddick wins this one then I will be the one being bought drinks this evening by the badly losing french people in my office." First set: Roddick* 3-2 Federer Federer is making the returns, but Roddick stands firm. He hits his serve like he's knocking fenceposts into the ground. First set: Roddick 3-3 Federer* A love game for the lovely Rog, who wraps it up by running around to wallop a forehand that cleans the line. As a commentator might say. "Still on the subject of the Henman hair-do, DM Heath says: "The problem is definitely the dodgy barnet - I suggest he tries Bed Head by Tigi, "a hair stick for cool people". I'm sure it's what Boris "The Lisp" Becker applies to his carefully coiffeured locks. Then again, the advertising blurb does state "...for cool people". First set: Roddick* 4-3 Federer And so those service games tick remorselessly on. Early evidence suggests that Federer has the edge, but clearly Roddick is going to be awfully tough to break. "In the photo of Andy Roddick on the Sports Unlimited homepage, is Mr Roddick trying to blow the ball across the net?" says Richard Embray. "Those are some mighty powerful lungs." First set: Roddick 4-4 Federer* Service game to the Feds. Blink and you would have missed it. I blinked. First set: Roddick* 5-4 Federer Could we be edging towards a tiebreak? If so, these two have played three tiebreaks before and Federer's won them all. A bad omen for A-Rod. Meanwhile, further to my kitten at Christmas line, Jim Griffith writes to say that: "I got a kitten for Christmas once. I put it down to nerves that, when everyone played with it, overwhelmed it and prodded fun at it, it shat all over the carpet. I hope you have a better baptism." Better thus far, Jim. But who can say what the afternoon holds? First set: Roddick 5-5 Federer* Looking a shade fretful, Roddick bungles another Federer service game. Cue lots of anxious glances up to Brad Gilbert in the visitor's box. The hair debate flows on, glossily. "I don't think Boris uses Bed Head - perhaps his 360 quiff is more down to impromptu shenanigans in cupboards and other confined spots (ref paternity suit)". Thanks for that, Andrew Carlin. Mr. Becker's lawyers will no doubt be getting in touch. First set: Roddick* 6-5 Federer  Federer clambers to 30-30 on the Roddick serve, but the gurning American frat boy belts his way out of trouble. Needless to say, the tiebreak beckons. First set: Roddick 6-6 Federer* And lo, the inevitable does occur. Mail from Ian Pratt on the subject of Roddick's cap: "Does he ever get confused and start walking backwards? Maybe he's going for the 'scally' look. Hang on, does that qualify him as being British?"ey, ey.. don't start like".  First set: Roddick 6-7 Federer First set to the Fed. He comes out on top of a tense, topsy turvy tiebreak, scooping it 8-6. Roddick has a set point on his serve but proceeds to dump his usually reliable forehand into the net.Two points later, the Swiss steps up to take a set in which he always seemed to have the edge. "Don't you usually do film stuff?"demands Anna Duggan "Maybe you could combine the two by dropping in a few cinema reviews when the tennis action gets a bit dull? I think that would be really useful. Just a thought." Hmm, I already tried that with my half-arsed attempt to secure Roddick a part in the next American Pie. As for Federer, he looks like he could star in a Europudding adaptation of Lady Chatterley's Lover, as the moon-faced romantic lead. This would be the sort of film with lots of ripe, melodramatic overacting and a few scenes of 18-certificate humping in the hayrick. Which might explain his bad back. Second set: Roddick 6-7 0-1 Federer* Always suspect, Federer's match temperament suffers a minor spasm as he falls behind by two break points on his opening service game. Clearly he thought that Roddick was all set to lie down and die. A deft drop volley and a thunderous ace gets him out of trouble. Second set: Roddick* 6-7 0-2 Federer Increasingly, Federer seems to be finding Roddick out. He's getting the serves back, running him around and forcing him to lumber uncomfortably into the net, where he's clearly not at his happiest. The Swiss conjures up a 15-40 lead, but Roddick struggles loose. Then Federer strikes again, lashing those free-flowing forehands into the corners to earn the first break of serve.  "Andy has the perfect 18 certificate surname," Ian Pratt tells me. "Just change the Andy for Randy and the transformation is complete!" Second set: Roddick 6-7 0-3 Federer*  No trouble for the Fedster as he holds to 15. Second set: Roddick* 6-7 1-3 Federer The man known to his dear old ma as A-Rod stops the rot with an easy service game. Incredibly, Federer has just missed a service game. Again with the pesky questions, this time courtesy of Alex Pickering. "Any idea why the frat-boy has been called A-Rod ? Why just him, how about R-Fed or T-Hen ? Hmmm, think I just answered my own question." Second set: Roddick 6-7 1-4 Federer* The moon-faced Swiss eases into a 4-1 lead, finishing it up with a textbook grasscourt point which sees him slide into the net behind his serve, dig up a neat half-volley and then punch away a backhand. You could bottle that point and sell it for a fortune. Henman, for one, would buy it in a trice. Second set: Roddick* 6-7 2-4 Federer "Perhaps you could try starting a lame headlines competition based on reporting the winner of this match," suggests Paul Headon "I'll start you off with "Federer Express Delivers the Goods" First rate, Paul. Thanks a bunch. But I believe we shall be sticking with A-Rod Nabbed by the Feds.  Or possibly: The Rod is Shafted. Oh, and Roddick just held his serve. Second set: Roddick 6-7 2-5 Federer* As Federer ambles towards taking set two, Roddick turns testy. After failing to scoop up a drop shot, he berates the umpire for pointing out that the ball had already bounced twice.  On the subject of Ian Pratt's suggestion for Roddick's porn-star name, Jonathan Blackburn says: "Ian should watch at whom he's throwing his stones with a surname like that ..." Second set: Roddick* 6-7 3-5 Federer A-Rod still hanging in there, clinging to his serve like grim death. Second set: Roddick 6-7 3-6 Federer* Second set to Roger and Roddick looks well and truly Rodgered. In frat-boy parlance, his suffering a good old-fashioned arse whuppin'. With three set points, the Swiss glides into the net and lashes a short forehand into the far corner. Roddick is nowhere near it. So far this is one way traffic, a battle between the boxer and the puncher. And the boxer is winning.  Third set: Roddick* 6-7 3-6 1-0 Federer At least Roddick still has his serve to fall back on. He holds in elementary fashion and grins wryly beneath that baseball cap. Up in the player's box, Brad Gilbert looks to have chewed his nails through the bone. Third set: Roddick 6-7 3-6 1-1 Federer* Oh so simple for Federer.  Meanwhile the question of Roddick's monicker rumbles on. Jon suggests an answer: "In response to Mr Pickering I believe "A-Rod" was originally a baseball player, more properly named Alex Rodriguez. I've no idea why Mr Roddick has the same nickname .. perhaps its a similarity in the way they hit the ball ? ... just guessing." Third set: Roddick* 6-7 3-6 2-1 Federer Roddick keeps bashing his serve with that curious jerky motion, as though he's at a fairground and trying to hit plastic gophers on the head in order to win a teddy-bear for his girlfriend. He takes the game but nobody hands him a bear. This appears to irritate him. Third set: Roddick 6-7 3-6 2-2 Federer* Federer has been in a groove for so long now that it's hard to remember the last time he had to work to win a service game. Right now he appears to be cruising towards the final. Third set: Roddick* 6-7 3-6 2-3 Federer I spoke too soon! On this occasion, Federer did have to work to win a service game. Unfortunately for Roddick, it was his service game. A terrific Federer backhand down the line brings up a breakpoint. Roddick's response is to dink his shot pathetically into the net. He's going, going, almost gone. Third set: Roddick 6-7 3-6 2-4 Federer* The headline suggestions are flying as fast as Roddick's serve.They're almost as wayward too. But thanks to Mark Goodrich, who says: "How about simply "Fed-up" over a picture of a gloomy Roddick sat on the grass." Sounds great, but will he sit on order? Oh, and the Fed just took another game. Third set: Roddick* 6-7 3-6 3-4 Federer It looks as though the party is almost over for Roddick. He's looking red-eyed, befuddled and close to tears. The kid has clearly over-indulged and now needs to be ferried home where he can throw up in peace. He holds serve, but only after reflexing a desperate volley that darn near knocks him over. Third set: Roddick 6-7 3-6 3-5 Federer* In the meantime, the Swiss just keeps on rolling. He's now just a few more flamboyant forehands away from his first Grand Slam final. Third set: Roddick* 6-7 3-6 3-6 Federer It's all over bar the post-match autopsy. Desperately rushing the net, A-Rod is rocked by a dazzling crosscourt forehand, then a brilliant crosscourt backhand. Federer takes the match, rather spookily, by the exact same score as the first semi-final.  And so Lady Chatterley's Lover (the Europudding version) goes through to face the Incredible Hulk (aka Mark Philippoussis) in his first Wimbledon final. No doubt about it. Roger Federer totally deserved his victory. Where Roddick is a genial basher of the ball, Federer boasts the sort of rich, varied skill that makes it look as if he's playing an altogether different game.  Thanks for sticking around. I shall now leave it to my colleagues to dream up an appropriate headline. Fingers crossed that your suggestions get a look in. Final word to Ian Pratt, in an ongoing death-match that's been far more intense than the contest on court. "Tell Jonathan Blackburn he's got a big nose and smelly feet. Oh and his Dad's a crap DJ." And on that note, let us call a truce. 