 A list of email addresses and passwords for Minecraft players published online in January was not the result of a security breach at developer Mojang, according to its parent company, Microsoft. Personal details for more than 1,800 players’ accounts were published online in plain-text format, sparking fears that hackers had gained access to Mojang’s customer database – which includes more than 100m registered accounts for the PC version of Minecraft. Microsoft has now confirmed that there was no such breach, meaning that the email addresses and passwords were obtained through other means before being published: for example, through email phishing attacks or malware installed on players’ computers. “We can confirm that no Mojang.net service was compromised and that normal industry procedures for dealing with situations like this were put in place to reset passwords for the small number of affected accounts,” a spokesperson told the Guardian. “When we discover lists of gamertags, usernames and passwords posted online, we take immediate action to protect our customers by reviewing for valid credentials and resetting account access when necessary.” Mojang, which was acquired by Microsoft for $2.5bn in 2014, already offers players advice on picking strong passwords for their accounts on its service, which are used for online play as well as downloading digitally purchased copies of Minecraft. Minecraft’s huge popularity – besides the 100m PC registrations it has sold 30m copies on mobile devices, and tens of millions more on consoles – may make it a target for cybercriminals. Why would they want Minecraft passwords? Because some players will have used the same email addresses and passwords for other internet services – banking, shopping and email for example. Microsoft’s statement should ease any fears among Minecraft players that their personal data has been compromised, if they weren’t among the initial 1,800 accounts. However, it’s a reminder to all that choosing strong passwords – and not re-using them for multiple websites – is an important element in keeping personal data secure online. • The Simpsons meet Minecraft in new content pack for Xbox 