Rolling coverage of the Ukip conference in Bournemouth, including Nigel Farage’s final speech as leader and the announcement of his replacement 
Andrew Sparrow 
16:25
 Magpie May you have stolen so far our 2% defence spending, you’ve also tried to steal our grammar schools but I think you are going to have a few difficulties getting that one through. Professionalism though will be top of my agenda. If we are going to reach and achieve the goals this party is still capable of achieving, then change is going to have to happen.  It is not going to be change for change’s sake, it is not going to be change because I think I want to change it and I can’t justify it, it is going to be because change is necessary and justified. I am not Nigel-like, I am not even Nigel-lite. I’ll never ever pretend to be so. What I will be doing is stepping into his leadership shoes, but I will be doing everything to achieve the political success that he’s handing over to me. That’s all from me for today.  Thanks for the comments. 
16:12
 The press conference is now over. Diane James probably made quite a good impression. She took questions from everyone who wanted to ask one, and she was brisk, confident and direct. She sounded a bit like a management consultant giving a presentation, but telling clients that for answers to some questions, they’re going to have to wait. 
16:09
 Q: Where will Ukip be on the political spectrum? Appealing to Labour voters, on the left? Or to Tory voters, on the right? James says the questioner should ask her in three months’ time. Her 100 days project will look at issues like this. And it needs to appeal to both. 
16:02
 Q: What do you think of Donald Trump? And would you vote for Hilary Clinton? James says she cannot imagine voting for Clinton. The jury is still out on Trump, she says. But she says it is up to the Americans to choose their president. 
16:01
 Q: Will you carry on using the phrase “remainiacs’? Why not, James asks. She says even remain supporters use it. 
16:00
 Q: What will you do to help Ukip in the north? James says she wants two chiefs of staff, one focusing on the south and one focusing on the north. Q: Will Paul Nuttall take the post for the north? James says she has not decided yet. 
15:59
 Q: Did you support the Breaking Point poster during the EU referendum? James says she defended it during the Wembley debate. That poster showed what the situation was in Europe. Q: Why have Neil Hamilton and the other leadership candidates been removed from the conference programme? James says that was her decision. She was entitled to change the programme, and she did so. 
15:58
 Q: Would you stand aside if Nigel Farage said he wanted to come back? James says Farage has made it clear that he has stepped aside from the leadership role. 
15:57
 Q: Would you fight a byelection? Of course, says James. But she would have to go through a selection process. She does not intend parachuting herself into a constituency. She would only stand if she had a link with a constituency. 
15:56
 Q: How will you heal the Ukip divisions in Wales? James says Nathan Gill has her 100% support. She trusts him entirely in terms of his views. Q: Can he be an MEP and a member of the Welsh assembly? Why not, asks James. She says the way the European parliament is run is a farce. Gill is in Brussels when it is necessary. 