 British delight has soon turned to disappointment. After congratulating themselves on having three players in the second round of a Master Series event for the first time, the trio exited the tournament yesterday.  First Greg Rusedski lost his way after dominating Lleyton Hewitt, then Andrew Murray took a set off Marat Safin before falling to the first top-10 player the Scottish teenager has faced. Finally Tim Henman, who had treatment for what looked like a stomach muscle problem, was beaten 6-4, 6-4 by Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela.  Murray said he lost "pretty comfortably" to Safin, the Australian Open champion. And the 18-year-old added that he did not feel he really belonged in the Masters Series, the tour's most prestigious tier outside the grand slams.  "I'm still not in the top 100. It's only my sixth ATP tournament. When I walked into the dressing room first time I got here, it didn't quite feel right," Murray said.  But the tournament referee did not buy it into this. After Murray's first-round win - by 7-6, 7-6 over the big-serving American Taylor Dent, the world No22 - he immediately moved the Scot from his original scheduling on the second-best arena to the centre court for his meeting with Safin.  Murray, having lost the first set to Safin, took the second off the brooding Russian. If there was further consolation for the Scot it was seeing Safin cursing and swishing his racket in annoyance before completing a 6-4, 1-6, 6-1 victory.  Earlier, Rusedski saw the prospect of one of his biggest triumphs of recent years fade away as he dominated Hewitt for a set and a half only to lose 1-6, 7-5, 6-4 to the world No3.  In the second set the British No2 was within a point of being able to serve for the match and in two other games in this set he also had break points.  Twice he had Hewitt break point down in the final set, too, and, even though the former world No1 did not appear to have fully recovered from the stomach ailment that last week brought the first retirement of his career, the more Hewitt escaped from adversity the more it seemed that his will would prevail.  Pressured by Hewitt's dogged returns, Rusedski eventually double-faulted to lose.  It had all looked so different at the start as Rusedski outmuscled Hewitt with serve and forehand and also showed a sure and sometimes delicate touch at the net. But in the second set the Briton repeatedly wasted chances to kill off the Australian.  It was a disappointing end to Rusedski's campaign in this event after his tenacious and intelligent performance in beating Russia's Dmitry Tursunov - Henman's conqueror at Wimbledon - by 4-6, 7-5, 6-3. This win assured him of a seeding at the US Open beginning a week on Monday.  Henman completed Britain's day of woe as he lost in straight sets to Chela. The Argentinian took advantage of the British No1's lack of form and match practice, after a poor run over seven weeks after his exit from Wimbledon which has seen him secure only one victory, against Chile's Nicolás Massú in the first round here.  The 30-year-old Henman was beaten in every department as the Argentinian imposed himself on the contest. The Briton, playing with little rhythm, was broken in both sets while failing to convert the three break points of his own during the match.  Chela delivered eight aces, compared with Henman's three, and Henman's serve deserted him as he hit four double faults. The Argentinian was also far more effective on his second serve.  Henman was vocal, questioning the umpire on some calls, but seemed completely out of sorts. Although he briefly threatened resistance towards the end of the match, Chela was allowed to close things out.  Rafael Nadal, triumphant in Montreal on Sunday, saw his 16-match unbeaten run ended by another 19-year-old, the Czech Tomas Berdych.  Nadal continues to follow in Roger Federer's footsteps. The Spaniard won the Montreal event, as did Federer last year; then Nadal came here and, just like Federer, lost in the first round. 