 Set in an alternate Victorian steampunk era, The Order: 1886 bundles werewolves, Jack the Ripper and Arthurian legend in with a load of wood-handled, high-tech gadgets and empire-era mock-futuristic weaponry. Unfortunately, your role is barely more than that of slack-jawed bystander, the game frequently reducing your input to pressing a button when a prompt appears onscreen. At other times you’ll wander along rigidly defined corridors, side turnings blocked by scenery, or groups of conveniently immobile passers-by. There’s a robotic artificiality about the game that isn’t helped by pockets of third-person shooting in which your hero hunches behind pieces of scenery, popping out to take pot-shots at baddies until the music goes back to normal and you can move on to the next beautifully rendered but strangely lifeless encounter.  ALSO OUT THIS WEEK In the past, the only way to make a shooting game really work on the Nintendo 3DS was to use the Circle Pad Pro, a peripheral that adds a second analogue stick to let you aim your gun. IronFall: Invasion relies on the same technique but also lets owners of the newer models of 3DS use its tiny C-stick to aim their weapons. Shoehorning a Gears Of War-style third-person shooter on to a device that normally contents itself with puzzle games and adventures seems, initially, to just about work. Yet, despite its outward appearance of functionality, the playing experience is uniformly terrible, the C-stick proving incapable of the subtlety of movement needed to aim accurately. Lumbering enemies move slowly enough to make up for this shortcoming, but multiplayer mode is a random mess of getting shot repeatedly by unseen malefactors. VD-Dev, £17.98   Steeped in gritty police procedural-style comic-book noir, The Detail is a drama about cops and gangsters. Starting off as a detective whose best days are behind him, you meet an informant being dragged back into a life of crime, a smug, too-slick internal affairs officer and a parade of other hoary old stereotypes. The action is framed as a point-and-click adventure, getting you to touch hotspots on the screen to investigate crime scenes and choose between a few simple options during conversations. The iPad’s touch screen lends itself to such old-school adventuring, and The Detail applies it nicely to methodical police work. However, the game is let down by characters who barely qualify as ciphers and a script that’s better at conjuring atmosphere than making you care about the walking cliches you meet. Rival Games, £4.79  