 It was the afternoon of the long knives at the Lawn Tennis Association yesterday, with the chief casualty being David Felgate, the performance director, and former coach of Tim Henman, who had been in the post for only three years, and whose job it had been to lift Britain's international standing. Roger Draper, the recently appointed chief executive of the LTA, has wasted no time in shaking up an organisation that over the years has become a by-word for unaccountability, coupled with a chronic inability to produce world-class players. After around six weeks in the job, Draper has swept away Felgate, Rebecca Miskin, the director of tennis operations, and Paul Keen, the finance and commercial director, all part of the senior management structure. Two weeks ago Sarah Sayers, the director of human resources, also left. There was a suggestion last night that, having lost his power base, Felgate chose to walk, although during his three years in the job, and despite his considerable enthusiasm, there has been little more than cosmetic improvement in the rankings of the British men, while the women's game has been allowed to stagnate. None of Britain's three top 100 players was a product of the LTA system, Andy Murray having been sent by his mother to learn his craft in Spain. Judy Murray will be one name in the frame to replace Felgate, while a place may be found for Murray's former coach, Mark Petchey. However there seems unlikely to be any immediate replacements, Draper and the LTA president Stuart Smith indicating that time is needed to further restructure the LTA at the top. Felgate, who coached Henman for 10 years before the American Larry Stefanki replaced him, acknowledged on his appointment in 2003 that he was stepping into a difficult job. "We have failed to capitalise on the good junior performances by taking them into the senior ranks," he said, adding that there could be no excuses and that his job was to deliver. This has not happened. Smith, who has a three-year tenure, is a man in a hurry and had worked with Draper before at the LTA when the latter was director of development. Clearly he was not hugely impressed with what he saw, and so Felgate and company have been removed with a haste that has rarely if ever been associated with the LTA. It was clearly essential that Draper put his own imprint on the organisation almost instantly, as in January it will open a new £40m national tennis centre at Roehampton, a building that has already been called a white elephant. Cynicism over the LTA has been rife for years, fuelled by their countless five-year plans and promises of better times around the corner. Ultimately Draper will be rated on the success of British players in what is an international, not a domestic, sport. 