The stories of mothers are still largely unwritten says the playwright whose latest study of mums and daughters, After Electra, explores ‘the tug that all women experience between children and work’ 
Lyn Gardner 
 A few days after reading April De Angelis’s latest play, After Electra, I stumbled across an interview with the great Patti Smith. She talks about her return to writing and recording albums in the mid-90s and being told she “didn’t do anything in the 80s” when she had been busy raising her family. Her outrage at the idea “that if you’re a mother, you’re not doing anything” is palpable. Then, just before meeting De Angelis, the tabloids are full of a story about a mother who left her children alone at home while she went on holiday. The two stories say a lot about our conflicted attitudes towards motherhood, and these themes are threaded through After Electra, directed by Samuel West, which opens this week at the Drum in Plymouth before transferring to the Tricycle in London. Motherhood is, as Smith suggests, an undervalued occupation, seldom given the status of “real” paid work. But woe betide the mother, creative or otherwise, who fails to subsume her own needs, desires or career to those of her children. Is there a more demonised figure than the mother who goes “against nature” and abandons her children, and in so doing finds herself subject to the clamour to be punished? “You are often disempowered as a mother, and denied [the opportunity to be] self-defining,” says De Angelis. “The stories of mothers are stories that largely remain unwritten. A lot of women’s lives and experiences are overlooked, not thought of as interesting. The heroic struggle of bringing up children and all the emotional caretaking that entails; these things are seldom recognised and written about in theatre and culture.” De Angelis’s hit play Jumpy transferred from the Royal Court to the West End, where it became a magnet for theatregoing mums and their teenage daughters. After Electra puts that relationship centre-stage. In 84-year-old Virgie, De Angelis has created a woman who is both an artist, with a focus outside of men and her children, and a mother. “Virgie hasn’t had the life that many men do that allows them to explore their artistic genius. It’s about the tug that all women experience between children and work and how you manage that. Virgie is just an extreme example of that. I think we are still a long way off from answering the question, How to be a mother? – and how also to be yourself.” After Electra takes place on Virgie’s 84th birthday when family and friends join her in order to hear an announcement. She is very much taking control of her own life. “There is such contempt for older women,” says De Angelis. “Even on stage, older women are so often portrayed as foolish, silly … not as powerful figures. I didn’t want to write a romance, that ‘cougar’ image has been done. But I did want to create a transgressive character, an artist and a mother, who is a powerful older woman and wants control over her life and her body. Virgie keeps on saying, ‘But it’s my body’. But are women really allowed to be in control of our own bodies, and really inhabit them? We are so used to being policed in so many ways.” Since she began writing in the 1980s after a stint as an actor with feminist theatre companies, including Monstrous Regiment and ReSisters, De Angelis has been rewriting, in surprising and often transgressive ways, the traditional narratives that relegate women to a peripheral status. She has always done so with a wickedly funny dollop of wit. Long before 50 Shades of Grey came along, De Angelis was asking whether feminism and sadomasochism made good bedfellows in The Positive Hour. In an early play, Breathless, the image of the helpless Victorian heroine and Frankenstein myth was transformed. Her modern classic, Playhouse Creatures, vividly sings with life as it explores the experiences of women on Restoration stages, and in The Life and Times of Fanny Hill, recently given a superb revival at Bristol Old Vic, John Cleland’s 18th-century pornographic novel is rewritten by women. For over 30 years, fuelled by feminism and her own experiences, De Angelis has reclaimed the stage as a place where female experience can be explored and celebrated. Although she admits that it’s sometimes been easier to be a feminist in her writing than it is in everyday life. “Being a feminist in the real world is tough. That’s definitely what Jumpy was about. There are the ideals, and then there’s the practice of it. My own experience as a daughter and a mother with a daughter has always fed directly into what I write. I remember when my daughter was young, I felt really disempowered, and wondered where all my bravado as a feminist had gone.” De Angelis’s daughter is now grown up, but some of those feelings find their way into After Electra, which hijacks the Greek myth of Electra, who takes her revenge on her mother, Clytemnestra, for killing her father, and tries to re-imagine it through the relationship of the elderly Virgie and her middle-aged daughter, Haydn. It’s a very funny play, full of her trademark deflating one-liners and some surprises as it takes a familiar story and subverts it. “I wanted to try and rewrite it and reconfigure the relationship between mother and daughter so they are not always set against each other, which is how Freud sees it. He says that the girl is always disappointed in the mother, and always in competition with the mother for the father. But I’m interested in seeing if there is a value, a different kind of value that she can find in the mother. I didn’t want to copy the Electra story, but the echoes are there. The ‘after’ in the title is important to me, because it’s as if I’m trying to chase her and pin her down. It’s about looking at an old story and maybe reassessing it, and trying to find another way of looking at it, and a potential for change. To see if there are other ways of reframing the story so we see it differently, with new eyes.” • Until 28 March. Box office: 01752 267222. Venue: Drum, Plymouth. From 7 April to 2 May. Box office: 020 7328 1000. Venue: Tricycle London 