Formed in 1978, UB40’s early, impassioned pop-reggae tracts lambasted global injustice and saw them rocket to fame. They set up their own studio and split royalties evenly; but despite worldwide success, they found themselves bankrupt, with millions unaccounted for. Ali Campbell left the group with two others and a bitter court battle for rights to their name is ongoing. Both sides put their case in this sad yet gripping documentary. David Stubbs  In which Liz Bonnin walks the Thames Path through Oxfordshire and Ben Fogle follows the journey of a fish from the seas off North Yorkshire to a plate opposite a heap of stodgy chips. All of which, yes, could be recreated by walking through the park to the takeaway, but the peculiar understated allure of Countrywise is that it reminds, gently, of the natural marvels that we’ll notice around us, should we bother to look. Andrew Mueller Private-public partnerships were once seen as a smart political wheeze. However, they’re often simply a means of shifting accountability. The aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, which struck the US in 2012, was a case in point. This frequently enraging doc explores the Kafkaesque struggles of flood victims – usually fully insured – to gain anything resembling fair redress from buck-passing central government and venal insurers. Phil Harrison  This week with the bodycam squad, the Staffordshire police are called to the river Trent on a hot summer’s day, where a dip in the water might have life-threatening consequences. Elsewhere, in Hanley, members of the force’s “problem solving team”, or PST, are called in to conduct a raid on a suspected drug dealer, with every moment being caught on camera, and officer Andy Morley intervenes in a dispute over a phone. Ben Arnold Harry Enfield resists the urge to screech “Only me!” as he joins the high-concept sketch show built around a different special guest each week. With such a veteran on board, Walliams mostly cedes the spotlight as the pair romp through some scattershot spoofs, including a skewering of MasterChef that entertainingly reimagines Gregg Wallace as a petulant, fussy eater. The talented Morgana Robinson, meanwhile, does some brilliant work in the margins. Graeme Virtue Adam Hills, Josh Widdicombe and Alex Brooker present another satirical outing for those not yet suffering terminal news-poisoning. Given the avalanche of deplorable happenstances in any given week, it’s safe to say there’ll be plenty to facepalm at, and edgy current affairs questions to ponder via the series’ spinoff “#isitok” hashtag. Meanwhile, will new Last Leg pin-up Justin Trudeau possibly indulge the trio’s overtures to come on the show and cheer us all up? Ali Catterall Channel 4 seems to be positioning Alan Carr’s Happy Hour as a challenger to Norton’s Friday-evening chokehold. But the Chatty Man still has a way to go to match Norton’s cheek and charm. Norton commands a higher calibre of guest, too; tonight, A-listers Jennifer Lawrence and Chris Pratt will be discussing their imminent sci-fi film, Passengers, and, just possibly, recent events in their home country. Emeli Sandé brings the tunes. PH Gran Torino (Clint Eastwood, 2008) 12.30pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema GreatsWith his wife recently deceased, all embittered Korean war vet Walt Kowalski cares about is his pristine Gran Torino. He reserves his meanest snarls for the Hmong family next door, until violent local hoods cause him to befriend and defend them. It’s a wry, elegiac drama, with Eastwood magnificent as the old curmudgeon who rediscovers his humanity. Snooker: UK Championship 1pm, BBC2 The 10th day’s play at the Barbican Centre in York. Premiership Rugby Union: Sale Sharks v Exeter Chiefs 7pm, BT Sport 1 A game from the 10th round of matches at the AJ Bell Stadium. FA Cup Football: Macclesfield Town v Oxford United 7.30pm, BBC2 Coverage of the second-round match, from Moss Rose.  