Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
13:24
 That’s all from me for today. I need to finish early this afternoon. I’ll put up a readers’ edition blog tomorrow. But I’ll be back on Saturday, blogging from Liverpool where the results of the Labour leadership contest will be announced at 11.45am. Thanks for the comments. 
13:16
 In a speech earlier in the summer Jeremy Corbyn criticised the media for failing to report a Labour election victory. He was much mocked when it later turned out he was talking about a parish council byelection. Helpfully, the BBC’s Daily Politics has produced some figures showing exactly who well all the parties are doing in council byelections. There have been 89 since the May elections and 31 seats have changed hands. Here are the figures. Conservatives: Net loss of 5 (Gained 5, lost 10) Labour: Net loss of 6 (Gained 4, lost 10) Lib Dems: Net gain of 14 Ukip: Net loss of 2 Greens: Net gain of 1 SNP: Net loss of 1 Prof Tony Travers, the LSE local government expert, told the programme that the results were “abysmal” for Labour. The results for Labour are frankly abysmal for the main opposition party at this point of a parliament. The Conservatives, in one way or another, have now been in power for six years. Their results are not that bad. The Lib Dems are making some progress, and in a number of byelections significant progress. But for the main opposition party in England to be losing seats net is pretty bad. Travers also said the Lib Dems were doing very well in some seats. They are not doing that well in the opinion polls, but they are doing surprisingly well, or certainly surprisingly, compared to the 2015 general election debacle at the local level. Not in every seat, but in a number of seats, and particularly against Labour, it must be said. They are getting swings of 10, 20 even 30% from one party to the other. So I think they can realistically say, although these are straws in the wind, that there are some straws. Asked if the Lib Dem local council byelection performance provided the basis for a fightback, Travers said it was “the basis for a basis”. In the past the Lib Dems had won parliamentary seats by building up their strength at council level, he said. But this process took years, he added. Tony Travers on Lib Dem council wins: "Doing surprisingly well... compared to the 2015 general election debacle" https://t.co/ZBi9nzMJrO 
12:56
 Here is some response to David Miliband’s New Statesman’s article. Owen Jones, the Guardian columnist, has posted this on Twitter. If David Miliband was better at politics, he'd a) have become Labour leader and b) realise he's now only boosting Corbyn. But he isn't, so.. And the Telegraph’s James Kirkup has filed a hatchet job. David Miliband isn't the messiah who will return to save Labour from Corbyn. He's an overrated political failure https://t.co/3acvI1nPPa Here’s an extract. The basic fact of David Miliband’s political career is that he was a disappointment who never lived up to his friends’ hopes and botched every opportunity he had to take a really big job. If he was New Labour’s best hope, its prospects really weren’t very good. 
12:40
 Over the last three years £46m has been spent on public sector workers who have been suspended on full pay, according to an analysis for ITV’s Tonight programme. The report is being broadcast this evening. Here are more details from the Tonight news release. Freedom of Information Act responses provided to ITV’s Tonight programme by police forces, councils and NHS trusts in England and Wales indicate that for the three years between 2013 and 2016, a total of 5,156 staff were suspended on full pay. In some cases members of staff were suspended on full pay for more than a year and in one extreme example for almost three years, while almost half the police forces that responded said their longest-running suspensions had lasted more than a year - at a cost to the taxpayer of £1m on the salaries of 14 officers. Reasons given for the suspensions in the responses include allegations of sexual assaults and cultivating drugs, sleeping on duty, being drunk at work, inappropriate relationships and tormenting patients.  
12:24
 Here’s Angela Rayner, the shadow education secretary, commenting on Oxford University’s rejection of Theresa May’s call for universities to open schools. (See 9.48am.) Rayner said: This is an embarrassing rebuke for Theresa May whose education policies are falling apart at the seams. Her plans for new grammar schools have been universally panned by experts, and now the Vice Chancellor of the world’s best university casts doubt on the suitability of universities opening schools. The prime minister urgently needs to get back to the drawing board as its clear she is quickly running out of any support for her divisive education policies. 
12:05
 You can read all today’s Guardian politics stories here. As for the rest of the papers, here is the Politics Home list of top 10 must reads, and here is the ConservativeHome round-up of today’s political stories. And here are four stories I found interesting. Theresa May’s plan to shame overpaid bosses by publishing pay ratio data has run into a snag, amid warnings that it could make banks such as Goldman Sachs appear more egalitarian than John Lewis. Mrs May is determined to crack down on excessive boardroom pay and in July she announced she would follow the US in requiring the publication of the ratio “between the CEO’s pay and the average company worker’s pay”. But officials have warned the prime minister that the calculation could produce perverse results where some big banks end up looking “fairer” than retailers such as John Lewis, which prides itself on an enlightened pay policy. There has to be a change in attitude on foreign policy. It’s too easy to try and build up a kind of patriotic fervour and say, we’re going to go in and sort it out, it’s very easy to vote to send somebody else’s son or daughter off to a place of danger when you’re not doing it yourself. I’ve spent my life opposing things and want to see a foreign policy based on peace, based on democracy, based on human rights and based on justice and in the ministerial things that we may well be appointing in the future, let’s have a minister for disarmament and a minister for peace, as well, who is pursuing those things around the world and looking to enforce the non-proliferation treaty, rather than pretending its an obstacle to rearmament. Its a question of attitude. The allegations include those from a Taliban bombmaker who claims his arrest and detention for 106 days was illegal, despite troops’ belief that he would make bombs designed to kill British soldiers if they released him. So far, criminal investigations into British soldiers have focused mainly upon their actions in Iraq. But new figures obtained by the Telegraph show that more than 550 historic allegations of war crimes in Afghanistan are now under investigation by a special police unit set up by ministers. 
11:05
 Labour party staff are demanding seats on the party’s national executive committee. According to the BBC, which broke the story, the move was prompted by newspaper reports claiming that, if Jeremy Corbyn is re-elected leader, some staff working for the party could be replaced by people deemed more loyal to him. Corbyn has filled the leader’s office with people strongly committed to his brand of politics, but most staff at Labour HQ are not seen as committed Corbynistas. Staff working for the party are represented by GMB and Unite and their convenors, Jim Harvey and Tim Waters, wrote to Corbyn on Monday this week asking him to “pledge your support for unionised Labour Party workers”. Interestingly, they cited Theresa May’s commitment to putting workers on company boards as a reason why Labour staff should be represented on the NEC. Here’s an extract from the letter: It is disappointing that while the Tory prime minister has promised worker representation on company boards that Labour Party workers are currently unrepresented on their own executive. It is therefore only right that the Labour party should lead by example and ensure worker representation on the NEC.  It would be deeply hypocritical of the party to espouse the importance of staff representation in other organisations and companies and not to act itself to put into practice the demands it places on others. According to the BBC, the Labour staff are demanding two seats on the NEC, in addition to the seat already taken by the party’s general secretary Iain McNicol.  In reply Jeremy Corbyn said that he was “fully committed to open and transparent consultation with trade unions on all matters relating to members of staff” and that no staff changes were currently being proposed. He said: As a lifelong and committed trade unionist myself, and as leader of the Labour party, I want to make it absolutely clear that I, and my senior management team, are not supportive of any compulsory redundancies.  At this stage, no changes to staff have been proposed and nor would they ever be outside of the context of a properly structured change management programme will full trade union engagement.  I would ask that you please disregard any anonymous or unsourced press briefings which suggest otherwise. 
10:44
 The Bank of England has warned over a “challenging” outlook for financial stability in the UK as the nation faces “uncertainty and adjustment” following the Brexit vote, the Press Association reports. The Bank’s financial policy committee (FPC) said that while the financial system has been resilient since the decision to quit the EU, there were concerns over the impact on the UK’s public finances, commercial property and over-indebted borrowers.  But it said bank capital standards will not be relaxed following Brexit, telling lenders they could expect rules “at least as great as that currently planned”.  The FPC also dashed the prospect of the Help to Buy mortgage scheme being extended, saying its closure as planned at the end of the year would not cause lending to dry up.  In minutes of the FPC’s meeting earlier this week, it cautioned: “Although financial stability has been maintained in the UK through a period of volatility, and a number of economic indicators have picked up from their post-referendum low points, the UK faces a challenging period of uncertainty and adjustment.”  
10:39
 A source in the Owen Smith camp has described John Mann’s claim about Smith plotting a leadership bid at the start of the year as “nonsense”. (See 10.19am.) The source said that Smith was serving loyally in the shadow cabinet until the summer and that he only resigned after a meeting with Jeremy Corbyn led him to conclude that Corbyn could not unite the party. Smith was not canvassing for support, the source said. Instead, colleagues were calling him urging him to run. 
10:19
 The Labour MP John Mann has written an article for Politics Home this morning that manages to be withering about Jeremy Corbyn and Owen Smith. Here are the key points. Wrong man, wrong time, wrong policies. Owen Smith’s leadership campaigned boiled down to one key message: I am not him. Never has a Labour leadership candidate hit so many bum notes in one campaign. Yet it was so predictable. Mann also claims that Smith was plotting a leadership challenge at the start of the year. “I was approached at the beginning of 2016 by a senior figure promoting his candidature,” Mann writes. This appears to contradict Smith’s claim that he only decided to run against Corbyn when Angela Eagle launched a leadership challenge, although it is possible that Smith was planning a leadership challenge at the start of the year expecting it to happen much later. He told the Guardian recently that Corbyn should have been given longer before being challenged. The real weakness of Jeremy’s politics is its statism. Jeremy is for the state, preferably run by people like him, doing good things for people. The antidote to this is for a party that embraces the enabling state, where people are empowered to take responsibility themselves and markets are free and open. The mirror opposite of Venezuela in other words. Those whose experience of life is that of the special advisor have never, in their own bubble, succeeded in comprehending this and it lends further credence to Jeremy who can pose as the outsider. However, it’s also Jeremy’s big dilemma, for he knows that he is the ultimate Westminster insider and has been as uncomfortable embracing a real diversity of views and experiences as his opponents have been. Labour loves staying inside its comfort zone, battling for irrelevant positions, talking to itself, sympathising with those living in poverty, articulating outrage. But it is terrified of the working class because it might say things they don’t want to hear. A leave supporter, Mann also says he does not accept the claim that most Labour voters backed remain in the EU referendum. When Jeremy, citing one poll by Lord Ashcroft, wrongly claims that two thirds of Labour voters supported Remain, his supporters and opponents gleefully nod in harmony. Nothing unites Labour more than false comfort about the electorate. Any mathematician can quickly work out that in fact Labour areas were the strongest to vote Leave and any well organised party, sampling ballot boxes, will know that in Labour areas it was the Tory voters who tended to vote Remain and it was large blocks of Labour trade unionists who voted Leave. The next contest will probably be after the next election. Whatever he says now, Jeremy will not stay on if he loses. Only three current MPs have the potential to embrace this wider world. Chuka Umunna, if he can tame his Euro fanaticism; Dan Jarvis, if he can stop acting as a traditional politician; and Lisa Nandy, if she can stay in touch with her constituents. Put a small bet on each of them, but not too much. 
09:57
 The Jeremy Corbyn campaign has removed a video from social media after complaints that it minimised the seriousness of antisemitism, Jewish News is reporting. It says the Corbyn team agreed to act after receiving complaints from “all sides of the Jewish community including the Board of Deputies, Jewish Labour Movement and Community Security Trust”. 
09:48
 In her recent speech on grammar schools Theresa May said she wanted to see universities do their bit to improve secondary school education. She said the government would ask them to sponsor state schools, or set up free schools. On the Today programme this morning Professor Louise Richardson, vice chancellor of Oxford University, said this would not be a good idea for her university. The idea of setting up a local feeder school - we are a global institution. What we do best is run a university. It would be a distraction from our core mission. 
09:37
 In his article David Miliband also claims that one aspect of what has happened to Labour under Jeremy Corbyn has been particualrly “disastrous” - the tendency to dismiss anyone who criticises Corbyn as a “Tory”. There is one other element that is not only undesirable, but disastrous. It is the critique that everyone who disagrees with Jeremy Corbyn is in fact a closet Tory – or “Tory lite”. The US Republicans have a similar problem, with anyone to the left of the hard right called “Rino”, meaning “Republican In Name Only”. The “Tory lite” allegation starts with a fact: government involves compromise. It then fashions an explanation: that the compromise is based on bad motives. It then develops a theory: that the trajectory of our country has been unchanged by Labour government since the Thatcher years. It then creates a new version of history: there is no difference between Labour and Tory governments. This is the sectarianism that leads to the dead end of permanent opposition. In his article Miliband does not offer a specific programme for what Labour should do to regain power. But he says the left should focus on values rather than dogma, develop policies for wealth creation and adopt an international perspective. You can read the full article here.  
09:18
 It’s such a quiet day this morning that on the Today programme they resorted to reading out poetry, Keats’ Ode to Autumn. The Commons is in recess, and the main political parties are getting ready for their party conferences. Labour’s starts at the weekend and, to mark it, the New Statesman has published a special edition, leading with an article by David Miliband, the former Labour foreign secretary, despairing at what has happened to his party. Like the Ode to Autumn (which an academic on Today said was partially influenced by the aftermath of the Peterloo massacre), Miliband’s article laments loss. But, unlike the Ode, it’s not great poetry, and it’s much more specific. Miliband makes the routine claim (for people from his wing of the party) that Jeremy Corbyn is “unelectable”, but he gives the argument a new twist. Rather than claiming that Corbyn’s policy objectives are fine, but that Corbyn is just the wrong person to be able to implement them (which broadly was Owen Smith’s argument in the leadership contest, with some exceptions), Miliband says that Corbyn has the wrong policies. The party has ended up pre-New Labour in policy and culture, when we need to be post-New Labour. This year’s leadership election has spent a lot of time debating how to “bring back” various lost icons, such as nationalised railways, rather than focusing on new ideas for the future. The main charge against Jeremy Corbyn is not just that his strategy is undesirable because it makes the party unelectable. That is only half the story. The real issue is that his strategy makes the party unelectable because it is in many aspects undesirable. This is true most egregiously with regard to foreign policy. The half-hearted message about Europe is a betrayal of millions of working people. The equivocation on Nato in the face of Russia’s intimidation of nations in her former sphere of influence is dangerous and throws away progressive values. But the electorate can see through the domestic policy, too. Nationalisation cannot be the answer to everything; anti-austerity speeches cannot explain everything; corporate taxation cannot pay for everything. It doesn’t add up. It wouldn’t work. People are not stupid. I will post more from the interview shortly. As usual, I will be covering the breaking political news as it happens, as well as bringing you the best reaction, comment and analysis from the web. I will post a summary at lunchtime and then I will be wrapping up early because I have a meeting in the afternoon. If you want to follow me or contact me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow. I try to monitor the comments BTL but normally I find it impossible to read them all. If you have a direct question, do include “Andrew” in it somewhere and I’m more likely to find it. I do try to answer direct questions, although sometimes I miss them or don’t have time. Alternatively you could post a question to me on Twitter. Updated