 In my column today I referred to William Buckland's book, Pommies, an excoriating dissection of English cricket which Buckland compares unfavourably to the lean structure which has brought Australian cricket so much success in recent years.  Buckland's book is worth reading by anybody interested in gaining a fuller and keener understanding of English cricket and why the sport is where it is today. You might not wholly agree with Buckland's trenchant criticisms of the English game, but it is passionately and persuasively argued, backed by thorough research. It runs to around 300 pages, but in a nutshell some of his main and most powerful themes are:  The England team struggles to sustain a level of excellence, and the players suffer too much from injury because the team, driven by commercial considerations, is scheduled to play far too many matches.  Our grounds are small, patchy, mostly outdated and do not compare with the five Australian test grounds whose capacities range from 32,000 at the Adelaide Oval to 100,000 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Buckland uses quotes from key cricket figures to pertinent effect throughout, and here is Dennis Lillee, speaking about the MCG in 2006: "The MCG is the people's ground … for crowd involvement and as an arena, a coliseum, the MCG was my favourite … It was absolutely inspirational … How could you not be affected by 60,000 or 70,000 people willing you on? And I'm sure it was daunting for the opposition." The tickets are also cheap and so the grounds are full, of people from all sections of society, and all ages. (The ECB points out in defence of our grounds that the cricket venues are so huge in Australia because they are paid for by other sports, particularly Aussie Rules football in Melbourne.) Buckland writes about falling in love with test cricket when he was first taken to a match as a child, an initiation experience to which any sports fan can relate. But he writes movingly about his disillusionment when finding himself at a Lord's test match with a friend in 2004, having paid almost £50 each for their tickets. The ground, he writes, was "beautiful in the extreme ... but far from being a coliseum … distinctly Victorian in look and feel." Of his experience in the Tavern Stand, he writes: "There was no atmosphere whatsoever. Most of the crowd was white, male, upper middle-class and well-behaved and the Barmy Army was not represented at all. There were few couples, fewer children and no groups of women. Anglo Caribbeans were few and far between. MCC members and their ilk dominated."  Buckland, you might realise, was becoming jaded with the culture of English cricket compared to the "people's game" status he found it had in Australia, and he went on his investigative journey to understand why. He concluded that the game is in the state it is because of county cricket's stodginess, staging too many meaningless and mediocre matches and making a thumping loss, but subsidised and kept in business by the revenues of the England team. Buckland argues that is a driving factor in the ECB maximising its income, including by selling the TV rights exclusively to BSkyB. He laments that decision, again pointing to Australia, where, as some posters on this blog wrote today, all home international cricket and away Ashes series are shown free to air on Channel Nine.  Buckland's view is that because the counties control the ECB it would never radically change this structure. Although many in cricket disagree with his argument, that 18 counties should be reformed and streamlined, to create a narrower pyramid with less quantity but more high quality cricket, Buckland is worth quoting for the articulacy with which he makes the point: "The [ECB's] constitution and the lack of accountability mean that the ECB is the protector and guardian of county cricket, a Victorian folly that should have been knocked down in the seventies. Over the years since, hundreds of millions of pounds in today's money that might have been used to improve the England team, improve access for fans and support grassroots cricket have been wasted. Never in the history of sport has so many been paid so much to perform so often in front of so few as are today by the 18 counties that for obscure historical reasons have the right to play first class cricket."  Many in the ECB, and in cricket more widely in this country, would protest at the vehemence of that argument. They argue that as we have a much bigger population than Australia, our 18 counties are proportionate to Australia's six first class state teams. The county system, they argue, provides a platform for first class cricket, and a pathway for young cricketers, which does have to be subsidised by the one money-making part of the game, which is true of all cricketing countries: the national team.  Buckland does quote to telling effect distinguished cricket people who have criticised the English structure for these precise reasons. He reminds the reader of the Cricket Reform Group, formed in 2003 by Bob Willis and Mike Atherton, with backers including Michael Parkinson and Bob Willis' brother, David. Buckland quotes Atherton's 2002 autobiography, Opening Up: "The structure of our domestic game is an anachronism, bound by history and tradition … Its justification could be in the entertainment it provides for a large number of people ... or in the fact that it is financially self-sufficient … or that it fulfils a role as a strong breeding ground for the national team. … It is clear that County Championship cricket fits none of the above criteria." Yet, Buckland argues, no action can be taken, because the ECB is controlled by the counties, who want to stay in first class business and need the subsidy to enable them to do so. Willis, certainly, is known to still feel the same way today.  As I have said, you may not agree with the argument in the book, and the ECB and county administrators certainly do not, but it is a persuasively written, thought-provoking analysis. (And before anybody thinks it, no, William Buckland is not a friend of mine, I've never met him. I recommend Pommies because investigative books of this kind, which dissect sport, any sport, this authoritatively and to this labour-of-love level of research, are very important indeed, and all too rare.) 