MEP says he could stand after resignation of Steven Woolfe and urges party to make sure May ‘walks the plank’ on Brexit 
Jessica Elgot and 
Peter Walker 
 Ukip must remain a radical party to ensure Theresa May “walks the plank on Brexit” according to MEP David Coburn, who said he was considering standing for the leadership after Steven Woolfe’s decision to resign from the party. Coburn, who was a supporter of Woolfe’s bid to replace Nigel Farage before the MEP withdrew after an alleged punch-up in the European parliament, said it was clear that politicians in the party needed to show more self-restraint. Woolfe quit on Monday night, saying that the party had become ungovernable without Farage in charge and it was in “a death spiral” after the EU referendum. “We’re a libertarian party and when you take the lid off that, there’s a lot of excited people who jump up and down a bit,” Coburn told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “We just need to get a grip of ourselves and sort ourselves out and I hope to be trying to do it myself.” He was speaking as the party released details of the latest leadership campaign following a meeting of its national executive on Monday. The replacement for Diane James will be announced on 28 November, a Ukip statement said. Candidates need 75 member signatures from at least 10 branches, and have from Tuesday until 31 October to submit their nominations. After a two-week hustings process, ballots will be sent to members in November. Before Woolfe’s decision to run for the Ukip leadership, after previously missing out in an earlier race to replace Farage because his nomination papers were submitted late, the MEP said he had been considering defecting to the Conservatives, an admission that sparked fury among his colleagues. The day after he announced his bid, Woolfe was confronted by other Ukip MEPs in the parliament in Strasbourg and claims he was punched by fellow MEP Mike Hookem. Hookem denies this. Woolfe said he fell backwards and hit his head. He spent several days in hospital. Coburn said he would consider running for the leadership if he was asked to by colleagues but said members did not want Ukip to be either a single issue party or a carbon copy of the Conservatives.  “Ukip is a radical party. We want changes. We also want to put a cutlass in the small of the prime minister’s back to make sure she walks the plank on Brexit,” he said.  “Ukip is not just a single issue party, we are very much a purple revolution, we want something different. That’s why I joined, not just [because of] Europe but [for] a different way of running things.” Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, said Coburn’s remarks showed “the low calibre of Ukip’s elected representatives”. Farron said of his “walk the plank” comments: “What’s more worrying to me is the language. We have too much aggressive language and threats in our politics. This leads on from when [former Labour leadership contender] Owen Smith said he would ‘smash her [May] back on her heels’. These are more than words, it’s a tacit acceptance that these kind of phrases are acceptable and frankly they are not. It needs to stop. “We need to get back to politics being a battle of ideas and not aggressive threats against women.” Woolfe, who had the backing of the major Ukip donor Arron Banks, had been the favourite to take over the party after the resignation of James – who succeeded Farage. She lasted just 18 days in the job before quitting, saying she did not have the full support of colleagues. Woolfe said he would sit as an independent MEP. “The way I was treated by members of my own party during the summer’s leadership campaign and the events that have led up to [my resignation] have all contributed to me coming to this conclusion. The party is riddled with infighting, proxy wars between rival camps and is run by an NEC [national executive committee] that is not fit for purpose,” he said. Coburn played down the significance of Woolfe’s admission he had been speaking to the Tories about defecting. “The Conservatives talk to a lot of people about a lot of things and it’s hardly surprising they were trying to poach him. He’s a very good speaker,” he said. Raheem Kassam, one of the declared candidates for the leadership and a former aide to Farage, said he thought Woolfe had been “effectively pushed out”. He said: “This, however, does not excuse Mr Woolfe’s conduct in the European parliament, and while he is a close personal friend, I should have liked to see some form of internal disciplinary process for the party to swiftly move forward, together.” Kassam urged Woolfe to consider, when he was ready, “coming back to Ukip and taking a leading role in my campaign to make Ukip great again”. 