Defence secretary Michael Fallon says work on building new generation of warships will begin in Scotland in summer 2017 
Severin CarrellScotland editor 
 Michael Fallon, the defence secretary, has announced that work on the Clyde to build a new generation of warships will start next summer after months of delay. He is due to visit BAe Systems’ shipyard at Govan on Friday to confirm that cutting steel for the first of eight Type 26 global combat ships will begin in summer 2017, guaranteeing a 20-year long programme for the yard. In an advance statement, Fallon said: “The UK government’s commitment today will secure hundreds of high-skilled shipbuilding jobs on the Clyde for at least two decades and hundreds more in the supply chain across Britain.” His announcement follows heated disputes over the future of the frigate contract after defence trade unions and Scottish political leaders complained about long delays and cuts in the size of the programme. The multibillion pound project was a major bargaining chip in the 2014 independence referendum. The anti-independence campaign warned it would be lost, in effect ending shipbuilding on the Clyde and closing one of the city’s largest employers, if Scotland left the UK. David Cameron, the then prime minister, said the contract was evidence of a valuable union dividend, with thousands of Scottish jobs secured by UK military spending. The UK government promised a programme of 13 vessels, with work due to start this year.  In the event, Glasgow still voted yes to independence and the continuing delays and uncertainties over the Type 26 contract has continued to fuel complaints from nationalists and yes campaigners. With a second independence referendum again high on the agenda after Scottish voters opted to remain in the EU, David Mundell, the Scottish secretary, said the contract was proof of the merits of staying in the UK.  “The UK government is backing jobs on the Clyde and in its shipyards – and this investment is only possible because of the broad shoulders of our strong UK defence budget,” Mundell said. Unions welcomed Fallon’s announcement, but warned there were still significant doubts about the future of a second defence shipyard at Rosyth in Fife, and the uncertainty about a proposed Type 21 warship being built on the Clyde. Gary Smith, of the GMB union, said Fallon’s announcement was “fantastic news for the upper Clyde”. A study for the union by economists at the Fraser of Allander Institute found 6,000 jobs relied on shipbuilding at BAe, which in turn supported £163m in wages in the area. “From that perspective, it’s great news,” he told BBC Radio Scotland. “The truth is that the government hasn’t delivered on all of its promises. We were told that there would be a ‘frigate factory’ on the Clyde.”  But Fallon had not delivered on all those promises, Smith said. “Michael Fallon was dragged kicking and screaming to make this announcement today after we exposed that the government was planning to move some of the work down south.” he added. The MoD should guarantee that Rosyth and other UK yards were awarded a contract to build three new Royal Navy support vessels. Construction of a current contract for support ships being built in Korea was hit by delays and cost overruns, Smith said. The defence secretary said the Govan yard was also being awarded work on two far smaller offshore patrol vessels and was favourite to win the contract to build new, lighter Type 21 vessels that would give the navy a larger fleet than it now had.  The results of a national shipbuilding review to decide on the Type 21 programme was due to be announced by Sir John Parker with this autumn’s Treasury spending statement later this month.  “BAe will be in pole position [for that contract]. They’re the principal warship builder,” Fallon told BBC Radio Scotland. “Nobody is short-changing the Clyde. This is a huge moment for the Clyde today. On the contrary, we’re confirming we’re going ahead with the steel cut next summer, and quite a bit earlier than some had suggested, of the first of the eight Type 26s that we pledged in the strategic defence review last year.” BAe Systems said Fallon’s announcement gave the company the confidence to intensify efforts to sell the Type 26 to foreign buyers, including the Canadian and Australian navies. The company did not say that meant they would be built in the UK.  