 The showcourts at Wimbledon - centre and number one - have a tendency to weave a strange all-or-nothing magic on the souls that play there. They can either inspire or destroy; vault a contender to play at levels hitherto undreamed of or paralyse them in a fug of nerves and embarrassment. For Barry Cowan Wimbledon's number one court was an inspiration. Set up to play the whipping boy to Pete Sampras, the lowly ranked Brit instead matched the seven-time champion throughout a see-sawing five set thriller. Except that then, of course, Cowan lost. It is a truism worn from overuse that the British public respond to a gallant loser far more than an impregnable winner. Look back over the annals of Wimbledon and you'll see that the tournament is littered with such British sporting icons. Back in 1986 plucky Andrew Castle gave the seeded Swede Mats Wilander a scare before cramping horribly in the closing stages. In 1993, Chris Bailey was only saved from a victory over Goran Ivanisevic by an ace on the Croatian's second serve. Last night the script found a new hero. One suspects that it was ever thus and ever shall be.  None of which is to take anything away from Cowan. Ranked at a subterranean 265, he played gutsy, dogged tennis; cracking brave second serves that had Sampras groping in thin air and keeping admirably cool as the tension swelled. But let's keep it in perspective.  Point one: Sampras, having played little this year, was still looking rusty in this second-round; still spraying his backhand, still decoding the mercurial bounces on a turf that differs subtly from his beloved centre court. Two: Pushing 30, Sampras is arguably a shade off his peak (play like that against Agassi, Rafter or Hewitt and he's a dead man). And three: For all Cowan's heroics, it never seriously looked as though he were about to win the match. And yet perspective is something today's blanket Cowan coverage is sorely lacking. By and large, the media appears flummoxed by the sheer narrative trajectory of a tournament that whittles 128 players down into one champion in one accelerated two-week spell. They're far happier fixing on one match, blowing it up and enshrining it in Wimbledon folklore. Far neater and tidier than looking at the broader picture, or keeping tabs on what's happening over on court 13. In the meantime, however, the tournament has already moved on.  Credit where it's due. Cowan played well. He exceded expectations in jumping a jaded-looking champion and keeping his head when all around him were losing those. But he still lost. He's still out of the running, and the chances are that we shall never hear from him again.  Two years ago Boris Becker was almost beaten in the first round by battling Brit Miles MacLachlan. A few months later, when asked about the match in an interview, Becker could not even recall the kid's name. Why? Because such scares and hiccups just come with the territory when you're a top tennis pro. You get through them and move on through the draw. Wimbledon culture will no doubt reserve a special niche for Cowan. I'm betting that Pete Sampras ate a hearty meal, had a good night's sleep and is already preparing for round three. Barry who? He's history. 