 Manchester City have completed the signing of midfielder Aaron Mooy, one of Australia’s brightest talents, from sister club Melbourne City. The 25-year-old Socceroos star, who signed a three-year deal with the Premier League club, will begin the next stage of his career off the back of a record-breaking A-League season in which he set a new benchmark of 21 assists. He also scored 11 times as Melbourne City finished fourth and went on to make the semi-finals, and his all-round performances for both club and country made an off-season move overseas inevitable. “Aaron was a fantastic contributor to Melbourne City and we must first and foremost thank him for his involvement and impact during his time at the club,” coach John van ’t Schip said. “He is deserving of his new opportunity and we wish him all the best for the future.” English fans not familiar with the A-League were given a chance to run the rule over Mooy during the Socceroos’ international friendly at the Stadium of Light in Sunderland last month, when the Sydney-born player’s stock rose with an assured display that drew plaudits despite the 2-1 reverse to England. Mooy’s chances of winning first-team football under new coach Pep Guardiola are limited though with a number of established internationals ahead of him in the pecking order, but Brian Marwood, the managing director of City Football Services, said Mooy’s development as a player would be the focus.  “Aaron is an extremely talented player who possesses the attributes we hope to foster and encourage within the [Abu Dhabi-based] City Football Group,” Marwood said. “With the unique model CFG provides, Aaron’s move to Manchester allows us to further expose him to a high standard of opportunities to ensure his professional growth.”  At the same time, Mooy’s fellow Australian Luke Brattan went the other way, returning to the A-League on a season-long loan deal from the two-time Premier League champions. Bratten signed for Manchester City from Brisbane Roar in October last year before being immediately farmed out to Bolton Wanderers. He arrives back in Australia not having made a single appearance in England. Melbourne City also announced on Thursday that Anthony Caceres – who signed for Manchester City in January and was loaned straight back to the A-League club – will stay in Australia for another season. 