Rocky Horror Picture Show  I see you’re shivering with anticipation. Fox has put together an all-star cast including Laverne Cox, Adam Lambert, Victoria Justice, Reeve Carney, Christina Milian, Ben Vereen, and the original Dr Frank-N-Furter, Tim Curry, to remake this 1975 cult classic about two uptight teens who wander into a sci-fi world of decadence. The previously released renditions of the songs Sweet Transvestite and Science Fiction Double Feature point to a faithful and competent production but, don’t be fooled, this won’t be performed live. Fox, Thursday 20 October at 8pm ET Hamilton’s America It almost seems easier to get into a time machine and shake hands with Alexander Hamilton than it would be to pay an arm and a leg to get tickets to the super popular Broadway musical based on his life. In this episode of Great Performances, the long-running PBS show takes a backstage look at the show, from its creation in 2014 and its evolution as well as exploring the life of Hamilton himself. It might not be the filmed version of the show that so many left out in the cold had been hoping for (and it can be frustrating at times), but those who are in love with the show will be delighted and entertained. PBS, check local listings Crazy Ex-Girlfriend If you are one of the fans of this amazing show, you already know that it’s coming back this week. (It seems like all of the musical comedy’s devotees are just as obsessive as lead character Rebecca Bunch.) If you aren’t watching Crazy Ex-Girlfriend already, you’re missing out on the saga of a woman who quits her job in New York, moves to a dumpy town in California to chase after an ex-boyfriend and searches for her one chance at happiness. It is currently the best show on television. Season two moves its time slot to Friday nights and kicks off with (spoiler alert!) Rebecca and Josh back together. But will she be just as crazy in love as she was about finding it? I’m sure there will be a delightfully campy musical number all about it. The CW, Friday 21 October at 9pm ET  The Walking Dead Who did big scary new villain Negan kill at the end of season six? Was it Glenn? It was probably Glenn. I really wish it were Carl, though. Wouldn’t this series be so much better without that whiny, one-eyed jerk? Anyway, we’ll find out who bit the bullet (or in this case, the bat) when the ratings blockbuster brings all of its zombies back for a new season that sees Rick and his clan being subservient to a new vicious dictator. Yeah, this is going to go really well. AMC, Sunday 23 October at 9pm ET Chance What is television without Hugh Laurie playing a doctor? Absolutely nothing. He trades in Dr House for Dr Chance, a psychiatrist trying to help a patient (Gretchen Mol) in an abusive relationship. His assistance becomes more and more extreme and leads him into the San Francisco underworld. Yes, this is nothing like House. Alexandra Cunningham (Desperate Housewives) created the show along with Kem Nunn, based on his bestselling book of the same name. Hulu ordered two seasons right out of the gate, because they know the public service they’re doing by keeping Laurie on our screens. Hulu, Wednesday 19 October  Black Mirror The UK import Black Mirror seems like it has already anticipated all sorts of dark turns where technology is taking us – and its third season, with an expanded six episodes, will continue to take us in the right direction. It’s a true anthology show, where each episode is a self-contained story, and Netflix has upped its game recruiting writers such as Rashida Jones and Mike Schur (The Good Place) and actors such as Bryce Dallas Howard and Gugu Mbatha-Raw. Just don’t binge this show. No one’s outlook on life could survive such an assault of bleak honesty. Netflix, 21 October  Adventure Time There are cartoons for adults and cartoons for kids, but rarely are there cartoons for both. Kids will love the adventures of Finn the Human and his shape-shifting dog Jake in the Land of Ooo, an alternative world where princesses rule everything, all of the residents are talking pieces of candy, and Jake is in love with a flying unicorn that only speaks Korean. Adults will love the ongoing saga of Finn’s love life, the post-apocalyptic and allegorical setting, and the trippy visuals. They might enjoy them even more after enjoying a smokeable substance that is currently legal in a few states. The seventh season of the show joins Hulu this week, so there are hundreds of episodes to keep viewers entertained through a late-night case of the munchies and to keep their kids occupied the next morning when they’re sleeping in. Hulu, 19 October TV news UnREAL is a mess behind the scenes The best and worst TV presidents Late-night hosts are influencing the election Amazon is adapting Bonfire of the Vanities Netflix paid Chris Rock $40m for two standup specials  