Theresa May urged to scrap plans to redraw electoral map after analysis showed up to 30 Labour seats could be abolished 
Heather Stewart and 
Severin Carrell 
 Labour has urged Theresa May to drop plans for a radical redrawing of the electoral map after analysis published by the Guardian showed that boundary changes could affect up to 200 of the party’s seats. Jon Ashworth, a shadow minister, accused the Conservatives of abuse of power and gerrymandering after the research, carried out by the Tory peer and psephologist Lord Hayward, suggested Labour would be disproportionately hit by the planned reduction in seats from 650 to 600. “To be frank it is an abuse of power by Theresa May, to gerrymander the electoral system and to stack it against Labour in this way,” the MP for Leicester South told Sky News. The changes, initiated by David Cameron, aim to ensure that each person’s vote is of similar value by equalising the number of registered voters in each constituency to within 5% of 74,769. But a higher proportion of existing Conservative seats are currently within the range, so only between 10 and 15 are expected to disappear, while Labour could see up to 30 of its seats abolished. “This is about deliberately damaging Labour’s prospects at the next general election, and that’s why it’s shoddy,” Ashworth said. “Theresa May should drop these plans.” He pointed out that while reducing the number of MPs, ostensibly to cut the cost of politics to the taxpayer, Cameron had put 260 extra peers in the House of Lords, while Brexit would bring added responsibilities for Westminster. Ashworth’s comments came as Gordon Brown argued that the right political response to Brexit should be radical constitutional reform, including an elected upper chamber and much more significant devolution to Scotland. In a speech at the Edinburgh book festival, written in collaboration with Scottish Labour leaders and policy staff, the former prime minister said Holyrood should be given powers currently controlled by the EU. Those could include control over all territorial fisheries, agriculture and social rights, as well as the European convention on human rights and EU academic programmes such as Erasmus.  At the same time, a UK-wide constitutional convention was needed to investigate new structures, including a UK senate for the nations and English regions, said Brown. His speech deliberately echoed similar remarks made over the weekend by Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader. In extracts released before his speech, Brown said the carefully constructed deal by the Smith commission to give Holyrood extra tax and policy powers after the 2014 independence referendum would also need to be ripped up. Brown couched the proposals as the most sophisticated alternative to two competing stances: the unchanging support for the union of the Tories, and the quest for Scottish independence which the first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, is due to rekindle later this week.  “We enter autumn with two entrenched positions which are polar opposites: the UK government wants Scotland in Britain but not in Europe and the Scottish government wants Scotland in Europe but not in Britain,” said Brown. “Now is the time for fresh thinking and not a replay of the tired old arguments and slogans. [I] believe that we should examine a way forward that offers a more innovative constitutional settlement, more federal in its relationship with the UK than devolution or independence and more akin to home rule than separation.” Brown said that overhaul would also include the Treasury sending up to £750m more to Holyrood: his advisers estimate the EU programmes, including agricultural subsidies, academic grants and regional funds, are worth £750m in Scotland. But Labour sources admit that giving Holyrood more money and far greater political autonomy from Westminster would provoke a fresh battle with English MPs over Scottish funding. Labour’s near-wipeout in Scotland at last year’s general election, with just one MP for a Scottish seat remaining, raised questions about how the party could ever win a majority at Westminster, which will be underlined by the results of the boundary review. 