Amid the summer lull, it’s time for a little speculative takeover talk. Analysts at RBC have been looking as satellite communication specialist Inmarsat and run the rule over the business as a possible bid target. In a new note, RBC’s Wilton Fry said: Given Inmarsat’s lower share price (especially in US dollar terms), rapid evolution of the industry’s competitive landscape, and historical precedents (e.g., Sky Terra approach in 2009), we believe it is appropriate to consider potential M&A activity. In this note we assess whether there is any rationale for Echostar, or Dish, to approach Inmarsat. Echostar and its sister company Dish Network have recently raised financing and Echostar now has around $3bn in cash on its balance sheet. This money is most likely to be used to fund new satellites at Echostar. However, there is a possibility, in our view, that Echostar or Dish may consider approaching Inmarsat given the compelling strategic and operational logic of a combination; as such, we believe this is a valid topic for investor debate.  A bid for Inmarsat could help solve the jigsaw puzzle: We see a number of interlocking situations: (a) Dish has a lot of US spectrum but needs terrestrial deployment; (b) Echostar and Inmarsat both own European S band that could be used for mobile; (c) Mobile needs spectrum given data growth; (d) Deutsche Telekom is involved with Inmarsat’s S-band project and owns T Mobile USA; (e) Inmarsat is global but needs needs more Ka-band; and (f) Echostar has Ka-band but wants to expand globally... We think combining a regional/deep operator like Echostar with a global/ shallow operator like Inmarsat would fulfill Echostar’s global aspirations and help Inmarsat’s need to add capacity in dense areas. We also think it could protect Echostar’s Hughes business, enhance in-flight opportunities, and confront ViaSat’s aspirations whilst simultaneously yielding substantial operational savings from combined satellite control functions.  Despite Inmarsat’s larger size ($5.0bn versus $3.6bn) and rating (around 10 times versus 5 times 2017 estimated EBITDA), Echostar has plenty of cash ($3bn) and lower leverage. As an illustration, a 37% premium (12.5 times 2017 estimated EBITDA) with 30% cash/70% equity structure would result in NewCo leverage of 3.2 times net debt/ EBITDA pre- synergies, in line with Inmarsat’s current leverage.  RBC has a target price of £11.50 a share on Inmarsat. The company’s shares are currently down 1p at 805.5p. 