Labour leader accuses prime minister of appeasing backbench MPs rather than protecting living standards of Britons 
Peter Walker Political correspondent 
 Jeremy Corbyn has used prime minister’s questions to repeatedly press Theresa May on her plans for leaving the EU, saying she was heading towards “a shambolic Tory Brexit” aimed more at appeasing Conservative MPs than meeting the national interest. May hit back forcefully, and at one point drew cheers from her MPs for mocking Labour about Corbyn’s recent re-election. But at times she found little of substance to say, beyond promising “the right relationship for the UK” after quitting the EU. Corbyn abandoned his usual approach to PMQs of switching between subjects and focused all his questions on the same theme as the Commons prepared for a Labour-led debate on the need for more parliamentary discussion on the approach to Brexit. The debate was granted after a last-minute government concession.  The Labour leader began by asking May about the now abandoned plan by the home secretary, Amber Rudd, to force businesses to reveal how many foreign staff they employ, and about proposals that pregnant women would need to show their passports to receive a foetal scan. May insisted the foreign staff lists was “never the policy”, and said the pregnancy passport checks were simply an “uncontroversial” means to ensure the NHS received money when required. Corbyn then asked whether continued access to the EU’s single market was “a red line for the government or not”. May responded: “What we are going to do is be ambitious in our negotiations, to negotiate the best deal for the British people. That will include the maximum possible access to the European market for firms to trade with and operate within. “But I’m also very clear that the vote of the British people said that we should control the movement of people from the EU into the UK, and unlike the right honorable gentleman we believe we should deliver on what the British people want.” May repeated a similar formulation of words as the Labour leader pressed her several times on the issue, noting the fall in the pound and the warnings of business leaders about the repercussions of a so-called hard Brexit without single market access.  “Is the prime minister really willing to risk a shambolic Tory Brexit, just to appease the people behind her?” Corbyn asked. In another question, he said: “This is a government that drew up no plans for Brexit, that now has no strategy for negotiating Brexit, and offers no clarity, no transparency, and no chance of scrutiny of the process for developing a strategy. “The jobs and incomes of millions of people are at stake, the pound is plummeting, businesses are worrying and the government has no answers. The prime minister says she won’t give a running commentary. But isn’t it time the government stopped running away from the looming threat to jobs and businesses in this country, and the living standards of millions of people?” May responded that she was, in contrast, optimistic about the UK’s post-Brexit prospects. One question Corbyn did not ask was whether May would allow MPs to vote on the government’s plans for Brexit, an issue raised later by Angela Eagle, Labour’s former shadow business secretary. May said MPs would have “every opportunity” to debate and scrutinise the process, but refused to promise a vote.  The prime minister deployed fewer apparently scripted jibes at Corbyn and Labour than at previous sessions, but she did make note of his re-election as party leader.  May mocked the shadow foreign secretary, Emily Thornberry, for supposedly seeking a “second vote” on Brexit, adding: “I would have thought that Labour MPs would have learned this lesson. You can ask the same question again – you still get the answer you don’t want.” Thornberry strongly denied she had ever sought a second Brexit vote. For the sake of a lame joke, the PM misleads House saying I'm calling for a rerun of Brexit referendum. I haven't and don't. #PMQs 