In closing remarks, government QC James Eadie says Commons vote to back leaving the bloc is legally relevant 
Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent 
 The supreme court has been urged to throw out a momentous legal challenge to the government’s powers to trigger Brexit, with Downing Street lawyers claiming parliament’s support for exiting the EU was conclusively demonstrated this week. In closing remarks at the end of a four-day hearing, James Eadie QC, appearing for the government, said a House of Commons vote held on Wednesday that backed leaving the bloc by 448 to 75 was “legally relevant” to the complex case. The politically sensitive dispute, which began in the high court, is over whether the government or parliament has legitimate authority to trigger Brexit by giving formal notice to Brussels under article 50 of the Treaty on European Union of the UK’s intention to depart. The lower court backed the claimant, finding that parliament should give the final approval to begin the process. Because of the urgency and significance of the constitutional issues, 11 justices are sitting together for the first time on the supreme court bench to hear the government’s appeal. If the justices uphold the high court decision, they are likely to have to decide whether primary legislation would be needed. The three high court judges last month merely said that it was for parliament to decide how to proceed. Addressing the supreme court at the end of Thursday’s hearing, Eadie said: “No doubt [the Commons motion] is not legally binding but that does not mean it’s not legally relevant. It’s politically significant.” Lord Pannick QC, counsel for the lead claimant, Gina Miller, has argued that a formal act of parliament, involving majorities in both the Commons and Lords, is required constitutionally to override the 1972 European Communities Act which paved the way for the UK to join what was then the European Economic Community. Eadie agreed that if the supreme court found against the government, then legislation would be needed. “If you declare the exercise of [the government’s] prerogative powers to be unlawful, you are in effect requiring primary legislation.” Closing the hearing, the president of the supreme court, Lord Neuberger, said: “We are not being asked to overturn the result of the EU referendum. The ultimate question in this case concerns the process by which that result can lawfully be brought into effect. “As we have heard, that question raises important constitutional issues, and we will now take time to ensure that the many arguments which have been presented to us orally and in writing are given full and proper consideration.” The court is expected to deliver its judgment before the end of January. A statement released by the attorney general, Jeremy Wright QC, said: “The country voted to leave the European Union, in a referendum approved by an act of parliament. The government has argued throughout that no further act of parliament is needed to begin the process of leaving the EU. “There was a universal expectation that the referendum result would be honoured. Parliament will be closely involved in the process of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU over the coming months and years. Only yesterday, MPs debated a Brexit motion in the house and the prime minister has committed to publishing the government’s plans for leaving the EU.” Miller said after the hearing: “People have been amazed at the incredible efficiency shown by the judges, the lawyers and all of the parties involved in this case, who have shoe-horned around two years of work into six months to ensure the PM can trigger article 50 before the end of March. “The tone of this week’s proceedings from everyone involved and many parts of the media showed respect, civility and professionalism and I very much hope that this will continue throughout the process of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. “Parliament debating and voting on a motion or resolution simply won’t suffice. I hope that the supreme court will uphold the high court ruling that article 50 cannot be triggered using the royal prerogative. Our case is that prerogative powers end where domestic law begins. Only parliament can grant rights and only parliament can frustrate, nullify or displace rights.” Earlier in the day, the supreme court heard arguments that triggering article 50 without consulting the devolved assemblies in Cardiff, Edinburgh and Belfast would dissolve “the glue” that holds together the UK’s unwritten constitution. The Sewel convention says that if Westminster is introducing legislation on issues that have been devolved, it “normally” has to seek the consent of the devolved assemblies in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff. Richard Gordon QC, for the Welsh government, told the court: “The force of the Sewel convention is not its legal enforceability but that it’s a dialogue between legislatures … A convention is a very important force in our society and it’s like the glue which can only hold an unwritten constitution together.” Helen Mountfield QC, for the crowdfunded People’s Challenge, accused the government of fictional creativity and myth-making in its assertion of its prerogative powers. “It’s much like attempts to catch the Loch Ness monster,” she said. “Because no one has caught it, it is said to be assumed to still roam free.” The online betting site Betfair was giving odds of more than 4-1 on for Miller and the other claimants to defeat the government in the final judgment. 