 The All England Club will erect new screens and scoreboards around the grounds in time for next year's championships to better entertain and inform crowds during rain delays like those that have dogged this year's tournament. The persistent bad weather of the past 10 days has exposed the lack of facilities for spectators during rain breaks, particularly in the southern half of the grounds where there is no big screen and only one scoreboard featuring all the courts. Ian Ritchie, the chief executive, said he would examine this year's lessons. "We are looking at the whole area of the spectator experience and improving the screen technology around the grounds," he said. "We will look at revamping and improving things, particularly the way we get information out, and make better use of technology we have by putting more screens up." There are screens on Centre Court and Court No1 for the first time this year used for Hawk-Eye line calls but the club has resisted showing replays during matches or advertisements for sponsors and has only occasionally shown action during the extensive rain delays. This is unlikely to change. "We could have put a bit more action on the screens but we decided not to. Certainly there will never be ads for Chunky Chicken on there." The rest is history Fresh sightings to report of the new sports minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, this time at the All Party Parliamentary Cricket Group's House of Commons function on Tuesday evening. The MP for Bradford South is making a busy start in his first full week in the job, though sources report he has not always been as lively when on duty. A Whitehall insider reports that in his previous job as prisons minister at the Home Office, his then boss John Reid accused him of falling asleep during a late-night conference call. During his time as home secretary the media-obsessed Reid insisted on Saturday night briefings from his press team on the contents of the Sunday papers, and during one such session heard a persistent buzzing on the line which he identified as the sound of his junior minister snoring. Centre of a storm The rain that has left the Wimbledon schedules in disarray has also brought chaos to the Lawn Tennis Association's new £40m National Tennis Centre at Roehampton. The downpours on Tuesday left the NTC post room, storage areas and most of the lower ground floor submerged in flood water. The NTC director, Mike Bain, and a team of his staff spent yesterday trying to bail out the inundation, which did not reach the indoor courts on the same level. The facility has been dogged by complaints from players and their associates in the past week, with some blaming a spate of stress fractures among female players on the indoor hard courts, and a senior figure describing the grass courts as "crap". The LTA has dismissed the gripes as yet more excuses from British underachievers. Friends in need Invitations to the Centre Court Royal Box are primarily distributed to the usual establishment suspects - politicians, diplomats, newspaper editors, broadcasters, sports administrators and businessmen - but being friends with the management helps. Wimbledon chairman Tim Phillips's daughter is comic actress Sally Phillips, best known for her turn as the Linton Travel Tavern receptionist in I'm Alan Partridge. This may explain why her friend and Green Wing star Tamsin Greig, left, and husband Richard Leaf, who appears in the new Harry Potter movie, were in the box yesterday. Shuttling into profit For many spectators the Wimbledon rip-off begins long before they get to the overpriced strawberries inside the club. Dedicated bus shuttle services operating from Wimbledon and Southfields tube stations charge £1.50 each way, with Travelcards and Oyster cards not accepted. Transport for London says the service is a private agreement between the bus operator, London General, and the All England Club. 