Mafiosa The second and third series of the cult French crime drama – which aired between 2006 and 2014 – are the latest arrivals on Channel 4’s foreign language strand Walter Presents. While gangster-themed, antihero-led dramas aren’t exactly a groundbreaking genre (see: The Sopranos, Breaking Bad), Mafiosa has something a little different to offer, bar la belle langue: its protagonist is female. The moral decline of lawyer Sandra – who finds herself at the helm of a powerful gang – puts an intriguing twist on your average mob caper. Available now The Moonstone The latest adaptation of Wilkie Collins’s 1868 detective novel aired last week, tucked away in BBC1’s daytime schedules. Adventurer Franklin Blake searches for an Indian diamond gifted to his cousin/love interest Rachel in this quality period crime drama. Something to whet appetites for yet another Beeb adaptation of Collins’s The Woman In White – or to somewhat fill a Downton-shaped hole in schedules. Available now Sexy Murder Rich Fulcher (above) stars as thoroughly incompetent murder expert Christoph “call me Christ” Spinelli in this six-part parody of dramatic true-crime series like Making A Murderer. Apropos of nothing, the disappearance of a young woman turns into a murder investigation, with Spinelli cross-examining local loner Tom Jessop. (“Did you ever have any disagreements with Polly? Never enough to brutally or viciously murder her, like throw her off a cliff – or pour a lime on her?”) Timely ridiculousness, featuring turns from rising comics including Phil Wang, Lolly Adefope and Nick Mohammed. Available now Breaking Into Prison Investigative journalist Livvy Haydock explores the contraband epidemic in British prisons, in the first of three new programmes for the online channel. As well as heading undercover to meet the criminals flogging drugs to prisoners for up to 10 times their street value, Haydock also investigates the factors – from dodgy police officers to drones – that facilitate this illicit trade. Available from Monday Red Oaks Second series of the 80s-set US comedy starring Submarine’s Craig Roberts as a teenager who gets a summer job at a high-end country club. With its John Hughes-ish coming-of-age vibes, this is a good-natured retro adventure that provides a nice counterpoint to some of Amazon’s more weighty series (see: Transparent, Goliath). Plus, Jennifer “Baby” Grey’s presence adds a certain tangibility to the soft-hued nostalgia. Available from Friday Crazy Ex-Girlfriend New episodes from season two of the bizarre yet moving musical melodrama are now airing in the UK two days after showing across the pond. Our titular crazy ex, Rebecca, is still pining after teenage crush Josh down in West Covina, in a series that will appeal to fans of Flight Of The Conchords and Fleabag alike. New episodes available every Sunday 