 I t is July 1 in the year 2027 and to celebrate the joyous 75th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II as the reigning monarch Her Majesty will this afternoon attend the 150th birthday celebrations of that annual midsummer jamboree of what has recently become known as the Intergalactic All-Surfaces Racket Spectacular, staged inside three grandiose covered domes, each seating 100,000 persons, on a vast expanse of ground in the suburbs of south-west London. Only a year ago, of course, this offshore colonial outpost of the universal superpower Europissima was granted the right to mark its sovereign's 100th birthday by performing the ancient rite of flag-waving at "street parties". There is the hope that next year, in 2028, similar antique traditions may be allowed when the Queen, who remains in excellent health, surpasses the 101 years which her mother had achieved at her death in the dark ages of what was still known as "Euroscepticism" a quarter of a century ago.  This afternoon Her Majesty presents the €15bn cheque to the winner of the Claycourt Unisex Final, the first of this year's three "Wimbledon" finals. Decided later this week are the other two finals - to decide the winners of, respectively, the Hardwood Rollerskating title and the GN Plastic "grass" Barefoot-and-Scanty Clad championships in the other two domes, which have been custom-built for the respective disciplines.  This will be only the third time in her 75-year reign that the Queen has attended a final. In 1957 and 1977 she presented what was called the "Ladies' singles plate" - for which women then competed separately - to, respectively, Althea Gibson, of the former "United States", and Virginia Wade, of what historians call "pre-referendum England".  The Queen's late son Charles did, of course, attend Wimbledon in the year of his death from a polo accident when, with his widow Dowager Princess Camilla, he tearfully read that memorable eulogy to "God-given gorgeous grass" on the last day of the 2012 championships when President Blair so ringingly announced such a surface "as fit only for what we used to call agricultural animals" and symbolically "bombed" the whole archaic anachronism and its surrounding "All England" grounds by ceremonially signalling in the demolition balls and trowelling-in the first stone of his "legacy", the spectacular new "three-domed three-surfaces circus". It was around the time of the Queen's 50th jubilee that international "tennis" players started to opt out and refuse to play on grass. In 2002, for instance, Wimbledon staged the only grass "major" on earth and what became known as "the Latin conspiracy" began to take hold - when the ace Brazilian revolutionary Gustavo Kuerten was joined in his "blackballing of green" by the Spaniard Alex Corretja, while the latter's compatriot and that year's French clay-court champion Albert Costa sacrilegiously chose to arrange his honeymoon during what used to be called, folksily, "the fortnight".  What is more, it was in that significant year of 2002 that - hard on the retirement 12 months earlier of the game's last authentic serve-and-volley grasscourt specialist Pat Rafter of Australia - two of the heroic ancient champions, record-times Wimbledon winner on grass Pete Sampras and his "US" confrere Andre Agassi, the only man to win a grand slam tournament on each of its then four surfaces (two concrete, one clay, one grass), were dispatched early by beginners and, taking umbrage, were never seen again playing on grass.  Also in 2002, desperate "All England" officials admitted attempting to slow down the hectic frenzies on grass by secretly ordering balls slightly bigger than hitherto and mixing the courts' traditional Cum- berland "fast" grass seed with a coarse-grass "com- mon as muck" hybrid.  There followed, as sentimental old-timers remember, a handful of years of passionate debate for an hour each June on BBC 5 Live's Questions of Sport. These had the nation split down the middle in fierce disputation over the imperfect bounce of turf, and whether the more precise tests of geometric strategy and metronomic stamina needed when playing on artificial surfaces were preferable to the - differently tedious - wham-bam single-shot (but perceived more aesthetic) spectaculars staged on grass which, historians exhorted, literally took the game back to its roots.  But then, of course, came the referendum landslide and Europissima's first order to President Blair that grass, once so obviously the cheapest surface to maintain, must be abandoned forthwith because of the wasteful labour costs involved in the preparation of courts, not to mention the corresponding and total Europissima embargo, because of its racist overtones, on "whitewash" with which the lines had been traditionally marked on tennis courts.  During the referendum campaign, the president-elect announced he "had a dream" and was going to be not only tough on queuing but tough on the causes of queuing, and he pledged that pavement queues formed by any plebeian tennis lovers would be banned and all spectators in his government's proposed mountainous domes would be deemed "corporate clients", fed large free meals at their seats and, as well, be equipped with miniature television relays and sound commentary of various enlightening talking-points which would be useful to repeat on their journeys home. It was probably the clinching policy decision of the whole referendum campaign.  Nevertheless, it had not been until he agreed to put the rebuilding of the ancient ruins of Wembley Stadium on further "hold" until a new committee had reported its findings that President Blair could persuade the Europissima Executive to order the immediate nationalisation of the All England Club and the simultaneous enforced sell-off of not only its 16 grass courts and hillside viewing areas but the vast car-park acreage and golf courses all around its property.  Subsequent lottery grants from all over Europissima let the president establish the famous "Shinook Shuttle" fleet of helicopters to-ing and fro-ing every five minutes to his three spectacular all-surface tennis domes - not only direct from Piccadilly Circus but from the country's three major airports at the already established Gatwick and Blairow, and the gleaming new 16-terminal "Garden of England" covering just about the whole of what elderly readers knew as Kent.  So it is that this afternoon, in the summer of 2027 and the 75th year of her reign (and the 15th of her power-shorn "Presidential Monarchy"), Her Majesty will leave Windsor Castle in a landau drawn by six greys, then from Blairow take the Shuttle to Wimbledon. She will be met by the President himself, and the First Lady, Cherie, with a parade of past champions forming a guard of honour led by the 74-year-old Senator James Connors.  In attendance will be the Most Worshipful Hon Master of the Queen's Wheelchair, Sir Timothy Henman, nine times the losing finalist between 2002 and 2014, when he retired from the game at the age of 40.   If England were any good, the World Cup might have been an incident All over now. Here's to four years of calm. I watched the World Cup's opening matches in Spain - with the commentary from a German satellite station turned off and to the accompanying sound only of ice tinkling in glass and seawater gently lapping on rocks.  From that blissful vantage England's players always looked as slow and hesitant of foot as they were of ideas. It was a shock to return to a deluded homeland bedecked with national flags and suffused with an overwhelming presumption that its team was unstoppably bound for the final at the very least. Were Fleet Street and the blanket-coverage broadcasters perpetrating a lunatic con trick?  So it turned out. All hot air, signifying nothing - a hysteria of possibilities summed up by the BBC's breathlessly expectant commentator John Motson in the South Korea v Turkey quarter-final: "Ooh, Trevor, there's a scuffle on the far side of the pitch . . . if the referee had seen it, that certainly would have been an incident all right."  · What I did miss when I was away were the Letters to the Editor. I caught up with back issues quickly - and once again Guardian readers excelled themselves. Among my favourites were:  "France lurches to the right in the elections. Two days later, France dumped out of World Cup. God really is a socialist." (C & M Allott-Morgan, Oxford); "Why the surprise at Argentina going out? When did a team with a large Scottish following ever qualify for the second round of a World Cup?" (Andy Trollope, Wilts); "I rang my cousin in India and mentioned concern about England being knocked out. He told me how concerned he was about being knocked off the face of the earth by nuclear conflict." (Arindam Rej, Hull); "Anyone amused by the irony of England fans chanting 'Britons never, never, never will be slaves' during the match against Nigeria?" (Philip Davis, Yorks); "The waxwork Beckham was not the only hero to appear in Trafalgar Square. Eight hours later that day 12,000 firefighters gathered there to ask to be paid annually a quarter of what Beckham receives a week." (Bob Houghton, Co Durham); "Having seen the Owen 'penalty' I presume any further reference to the 'hand of God' would be rather churlish." (Kevin Ryan, Surrey); "The most heartening aspect is that I have heard no anti-English rhetoric from the Welsh. Maybe I have not mixed with any negative simpletons this time . . . " (Lance Green, Gwent); "Na na ni na na." (Colin Guthrie, Glasgow); "What does 'Na na ni na na' mean? I am a Guardian Europe reader and obviously out of touch with aspects of our language." (Fred Rogers, Munich); "What chance the ponytail making a fashion comeback?" (Ian Wilmore, London); "Mr Blair has adopted Sven spectacles. How long after England have been knocked out will he be wearing them?" (David Atkinson, Norwich); "I look forward to 2006 with bated breath . . . let's cut to the chase and have Disney present World Cup on Ice." (Siobhan Dunne, London). Vivat Regina! Vivat Europissima! Pity about poor old grass. 