 Troubled phone maker BlackBerry has attempted to expand its security offerings with the acquisition of voice encryption provider Secusmart, though onlookers aren’t convinced it will reverse the company’s fortunes. The deal to acquire the young German company, announced on Tuesday, forms part of BlackBerry’s shift away from consumer devices and further into the business protection realm.  It has already released software and services designed to prevent attacks on smartphones, whether they’re BlackBerry, Apple or Android devices. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. “We are always improving our security solutions to keep up with the growing complexity of enterprise mobility, with devices being used for more critical tasks and to store more critical information, and security attacks becoming more sophisticated,” said John Chen, executive chairman and CEO, BlackBerry.  “The acquisition of Secusmart underscores our focus on addressing growing security costs and threats ranging from individual privacy to national security.” BlackBerry and Secusmart were already partners, having teamed up to provide data and voice encryption to Germany’s Federal Office for Information Security. Even Chancellor Angela Merkel was said to be a user of the pair’s tools. BlackBerry is trying to capitalise on the growing interest in end-to-end encrypted voice services, brought about by the Edward Snowden revelations of mass snooping by global intelligence agencies. Companies such as Silent Circle have been able to piggyback on the heightened focus on security to acquire customers, including some within the US government. Just yesterday, Open Whisper Systems made a potentially disruptive announcement with free, global encrypted phone calls for iPhone. The organisation, whose co-founder is renowned security professional and privacy activist Moxie Marlinspike, said the Signal app would work with its Android equivalents, which would also be getting a refresh soon. With all this competition, analysts aren’t banking on BlackBerry dominance, despite its reputation. “BlackBerry has been on the back foot for some years now. It is true that security needs to stepped up in the way mobile devices are used, but the basic encryption capability is available for all the common operating systems,” Bob Tarzey, security expert at research firm Quocirca, told the Guardian. “The Secusmart acquisition looks to be pretty focused on those with a high level of security concerns - enterprise, government - so it may help Blackberry maintain its shrinking foothold in these sectors in the short term, but will do little to help with broader appeal.” 