Supporters refuse to shake it off and criticise Triple J over inclusion of track from Adelaide-born singer, despite it also never being played on the station 
Elle Hunt 
 Outraged Taylor Swift fans have criticised Triple J, following news that Sia’s hit Chandelier, which came ninth in Monday’s Hottest 100 poll, was also never played on the alternative station. Swift’s song Shake It Off received enough votes to secure the number 12 spot in the Australia Day countdown, but was disqualified after a controversial two-week social media campaign led by BuzzFeed Australia.  Triple J listed its reasons, BuzzFeed-style, on a single-page website, TripleJFeed. One was that Taylor Swift had never been played on Triple J. “If we included every song we never played on our website short list, it’d be as big as this comically large cat!” Swift’s exclusion prompted claims of cultural elitism and sexism, given that the sole stated criterion for inclusion in the countdown was that the song could not have benefited from a commercial campaign – which many argued did not extend to BuzzFeed. But in a subsequent twist in the saga, it has been revealed that Australian pop musician Sia’s hit Chandelier had never been played on Triple J, but nonetheless appeared at ninth place on the poll. ToneDeaf is reporting that though several of Sia’s other songs were played on the station at some point in 2014, Chandelier was not among them. This has been confirmed by the playlist log J Play, which shows that the first time the song featured was as part of the Hottest 100 on Monday. Prior to that, a Like A Version cover by former Unearthed High finalist Montaigne was played, however, Shake It Off had also been covered on the station, by Triple J favourites Milky Chance. Station manager Chris Scaddan told Tone Deaf that, though Chandelier was never on the rotation, it had won the 2014 J Award for best music video, and the station had been supporting Sia, and playing her music, for more than 15 years.  In contrast, Swift has never had a song play on Triple J. 