Readers unable to see their televisions for piled-up newspapers and old Argos catalogues might want to trim down those stacks, as the Hoarder SOS team have reassembled for a new series. Today’s mission for Curtis Dowling involves a trip to Newcastle upon Tyne to meet a collector besieged by his collection of model cars, while Joanna Riley visits London to help a fanatical fashionista liberate a home swamped by shoes and clothing. Mark Gibbings-Jones Coverage from Manchester of the victory parade for Britain’s Olympians and Paralympians. A measure of gloating is justifiable: Britain had its best Olympics since 1908, returning from Rio with 67 medals, and at the Paralympics finished second only to China, racking up 147 medals. Given that few of these athletes will be spared much more thought or airtime for another four years, it seems like about the least they deserve. Andrew Mueller A belated UK debut – albeit in a daily, week-night slot – for the slick US comedy hit about an ambitious ad exec. After a tough upbringing, Andre (Anthony Anderson) frets over whether, in pursuing an affluent life for his anaesthetist wife and their four children, he has somehow compromised their black identity. That’s a knottier premise than most sitcoms but the occasionally barbed social commentary is matched with the usual family hijinks. Graeme Virtue Every year, around 1,000 hungry polar bears migrate through a small town in Canada called Churchill (pop. 800) looking for tasty seals. In this eye-opening new documentary – featuring much first-take stuff by necessity – we meet the huge, decidedly non-fluffy lords of the Arctic, such as a “mummy bear” and a 1,000lb gentleman known simply as “Big Bear”, plus their human counterparts, including a waitress who survived an attack and a “bear whisperer”. Ali Catterall Even if he now regards the licence fee as “absurd”, Jeremy Paxman still occasionally deigns to do Auntie’s bidding. Tonight, he’ll be pronouncing on the bewildering 2016 US election. How did America get this poisonously divided? Is democracy as we know it under threat? And exactly how outlandish would Donald Trump’s behaviour have to become to discourage his rabid legions? In short: what the holy hell is going on over there? Phil Harrison Twenty-five hopefuls pitch up for a new series, to see if they have what it takes to pass the gruelling training undergone by the Special Air Service. Chief instructor Ant and his team have their work cut out for them, as they transport the recruits to the Amazon rainforest to take on the jungle phase of SAS training. It’s a hostile business, requiring a “bridge leap” before they’ve even made camp. And then there’s the insects. Ben Arnold In the first of three films examining genre fiction, Marr attempts to unpack the whodunnit. With Conan Doyle and Christie unavailable, he interrogates Anthony Horowitz and Sophie Hannah, the contemporary authors hired to evoke their styles. Mimicry must be contagious, as Marr also attempts to invoke Poirot and Inspector Wexford with a cavalcade of wonky accents. Graeme Virtue  WTA Tennis: The Luxembourg Open 12midday, Eurosport 1 The opening day from the CK Sports Centre in Kockelscheuer. Premier League Football: Liverpool v Manchester United 7pm, Sky Sports 1 Mouthwatering Monday nighter from Anfield as Mourinho’s Mancs visit Klopp’s surging scousers. Series A Football: Palermo v Torino 7.30pm, BT Sport 1 Italian action from the Stadio Renzo Barbera. Silverado (Lawrence Kasdan, 1985)6.20pm, Sony Movie ChannelThe western had come to a halt by the mid-80s but this spurred a fresh canter. A sort of Magnificent Four – Kevins Costner and Kline, Danny Glover, Scott Glenn – take on bad sheriff of Silverado Brian Dennehy and his deputies. It’s a traditional plot, but exuberantly done. Less obvious western types such as Jeff Goldblum, Rosanna Arquette and John Cleese (as an English lawman) provide quirky touches, while Linda Hunt is tough and touching as the bar owner. 