The two well-behaved children, impeccably dressed with hair neatly brushed for the photographer, couldn’t have known it at the time, but they were to inherit one of the most scandalous sculptures of the 20th century: The Kiss by Auguste Rodin.  After it spent decades in storage, and months in 1915 with a blanket over the heads of the lovers regarded as too erotic to display, the girl in the photograph finally sold it in 1953 for £7,500 to the Tate, where it is now regarded as one of the greatest treasures in the collection. The photograph, along with one of a 1915 Boxing Day party in Lewes town hall for hundreds of soldiers, which shows the sculpture covered up at the back of the room, has resurfaced in an extraordinary archive of more than 150,000 glass plate negatives. They are the work of four generations of Reeves photographers in the East Sussex town. The Kiss was commissioned by Edward Warren, an eccentric and wealthy American who owned a grand house in Lewes, where he kept a renowned art collection. It included the startlingly explicit Roman silver cup which the British Museum bought in 1999 for £1.8m, then its single most expensive purchase. Warren paid Rodin £1,000 for the sculpture, carved out of a single four-tonne block of Pentelican marble, and specified that there must be no fig leaves, the man’s genitals must be fully carved and plainly visible. Rodin’s enthusiastic compliance was part of the problem. The sculpture went into Warren’s coach house for years, and was then loaned to the town hall – dragged the short distance on a trolley hauled by three men and four horses – where it was swathed in wrappings lest it inflame the passions of the soldiers billeted in the town on their way to the Somme. In 1917 it went back into store after the council returned it with a polite note saying that the hall, used by the soldiers for social events and boxing matches, “did not lend itself to such a noble piece of statuary”. It is still said in the town that the campaign against the statue was instigated by a local school teacher, Kate Fowler Tutt. Brigitte Lardinois, the photography expert who is working on the archive, said no evidence had been found to substantiate the claim. “But then we thought the statue being covered up was just another story, until we actually found the photograph which clearly shows it.” When Warren died in 1928, his secretary, Harold Asa Thomas, the father of the children in the photograph, Pamela and Edward, inherited his home and works of art. He promptly tried to sell The Kiss but it failed to make the reserve price at auction, and spent more years in storage before Pamela finally managed to offload it to the Tate.  It returned briefly on loan in 1999, and this time the grateful council strengthened the town hall floor to ensure it could safely take its weight.  The record of the story, including a photograph of the sculpture soon after it arrived in the town, and a portrait of Fowler Tutt, has recently been traced in the archive. Lardinois, a senior researcher at University of Arts London, says the photography collection is unique in the world, including every scrap of documentation to enable the identification of all the subjects from 1855 on. It is housed in the original daylight studio, believed to be the oldest in the world still in use. Lardinois first learned of the archive while working on a book about the gardens of Glyndebourne opera house, a few miles outside Lewes, and discovered the Reeves had photographed them. The current owner, Tom Reeves, welcomed her interest but politely and repeatedly turned down her requests to research further.  “I kept going back every Wednesday and having tea with him and his wife, Tania Osband, but he kept saying ‘this is business, it is not a museum’. Eventually I persuaded him that he had something really extraordinary there. I know of nothing like it anywhere, and it is a legend among a small band of photography experts.” Lardinois, who lives in Lewes, has recruited local volunteers, including students and professional archivists, to help with the epic task of cataloguing and digitising the collection. They are barely a 10th of the way through the work, which is being supported by a small Heritage Lottery grant, the university and local funders. An exhibition of first world war images from the collection – including photographs of soldiers displayed at or near the homes they left and in many cases never returned to – has been mounted in lightboxes in shop and house windows in the town. It runs until 20 November. 