Prosecutors in Brazil have uncovered what is believed to be the biggest corruption scandal in the country’s history. Many companies have been accused of paying bribes to officials at a state-owned oil giant known as Petrobras. One of them is Rolls-Royce, which is alleged to have paid a $200,000 (£165,000) bribe to win a contract to install equipment on oil rigs. Rolls-Royce has said previously that it is cooperating with the Brazilian investigation. Rolls-Royce admitted in 2013 that it had failed to declare that it had employed middlemen on civil energy contracts awarded by state-run bodies. Firms are required to declare the payment of commission to agents in civil contracts. Separately, Indian police have been examining arms deals involving Rolls-Royce between 2007 and 2011.  An anonymous blogger using the name Soaring Dragon alleged that Rolls-Royce paid large bribes to two Chinese officials in 2005 and 2010 to win contracts from two of the country’s airlines. One official was jailed for life, although Rolls-Royce was not named as the payer of the bribe in the court case. A former employee has claimed in interviews with newspapers that Rolls-Royce had given £20m to the then Indonesian president’s son Tommy Suharto to persuade the country’s main airline to buy its engines in the 1990s. Suharto has denied that he received the money, or a blue car from Rolls-Royce, or that he recommended the engines to the Indonesian airline. Fana Hlongwane, a former aide to a South African defence minister, was implicated in an arms deal scandal and in 2008 was accused of channelling large payments to secure contracts for British arms firm BAE. He was not prosecuted. A leaked document seen by the Guardian and the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism in South Africa shows that in 2005, Rolls-Royce hired Hlongwane as a commercial consultant to “support and promote” its business in the country. He was to be paid £140,000 for his work, according to the document. Hlongwane, who has denied being involved in corruption in the past, did not respond to a request for comment. Rolls-Royce hired agents in oil-rich Angola to try to secure lucrative contracts with Sonangol, the powerful state-owned oil company, according to leaked documents obtained by Fairfax Media. Between 2008 and 2013, the company hired a partnership between the Monaco-based agent Unaoil and another firm of agents to try to secure contracts worth more than $110m. In the aftermath of the Iraq war, Rolls-Royce hired Unaoil to help it secure contracts with the state-owned Southern Oil Company. Between 2007 and 2011, the company was particularly keen to try to secure a contract to sell three industrial turbines. In 2008, a subsidiary of Unaoil was hired to represent Rolls-Royce in Iran, though the contract would be cancelled just one year later over fears of reputational damage. Prior to this, Rolls-Royce sold industrial components to the country through a separate firm of agents. Unaoil represented Rolls-Royce in Kazakhstan from 2008, attempting to secure a contract to contribute to the China-Kazakhstan pipeline. According to Unaoil’s lawyers, the partnership was still active as of July 2014, despite corruption allegations having been made against Unaoil the previous year. Rolls-Royce was using Unaoil’s help to secure contracts in Azerbaijan as early as 2001. The relationship between the two companies was sufficiently close that in 2006, as work dried up, plans were made for Unaoil’s Baku operation to be subsumed into Rolls-Royce’s international division rather than being shut down. The Serious Fraud Office is examining whether Rolls-Royce and its agents were involved in bribing government officials to win energy contracts as recently as 2013, according to a report in the Financial Times. Rolls-Royce reportedly no longer employs the agents, who told the paper that they were not aware of the SFO’s investigation. The paper said the agents did not respond to emailed questions. Britain’s huge al-Yamamah arms deal with the Saudis was mired in corruption claims for years. A court case in the late 1990s revealed that Rolls-Royce, which made engines for warplanes, had paid £23m to Saudi royals as part of the deal. The Guardian has previously reported details of the court case, including the claim that the money was paid into an anonymous company in Panama. The payments became public when the Saudi royals sued, claiming that Rolls-Royce had promised them nearly double that sum. The matter was settled out of court. It is unclear if these payments are being examined by the SFO in its current inquiry. 