Pressure on the North Sea oil industry is likely to persist, according to the Bank of England governor, as the sharp drop in prices takes its toll on the wider economy. Mark Carney suggested that there was no respite in sight for the oil and gas industry, where the downturn has led to the loss of thousands of jobs. “It is difficult. I don’t want to underplay it,” he said in an interview with the Herald newspaper in Scotland. “It is a challenging environment and, given global prices, that may persist for some time.”  The price of Brent crude oil fell to a 12-year low of just below $30 (£23) a barrel in January, from a high of $115 in summer 2014. On Wednesday morning, it was trading at slightly above $46. Visiting Scotland for the first time since before the 2014 independence referendum, Carney acknowledged the effect of declining North Sea oil revenues on the broader Scottish economy. “It is having a multiplier impact,” he said. The Scottish government’s North Sea revenues collapsed in 2015-16 to £60m from £1.8bn a year earlier. It was a far cry from the rewards reaped by Scotland in 2008-09, when North Sea revenues were £11.6bn. Income from the oil industry is a key factor in debates over Scotland’s ability to fund its public finances as an independent nation.  Carney said the UK economy was slowing in the second half of the year, following Britain’s vote to leave the EU.  “[The Bank] had expected in August that the economy would slow materially during the second half of this year, relative to relatively strong growth in the first half of this year. Broad brush, that is what we are seeing,” he said. The governor said the Brexit vote had caused considerable uncertainty, affecting some areas of the economy more than others. “We are seeing a softening in business investment, a softening in the real estate market,” he said. “At the same time, the consumer is holding up. In the middle is the housing market, where there are mixed signals.” Carney said the Bank had attempted to support the economy during this period of heightened uncertainty, with a package of measures including a cut in interest rates and an extension of the bond buying scheme known as quantitative easing. “The decision to leave does bring a period of adjustment. What we have looked to do is provide some support to the economy to help with that adjustment, both in terms of improving the ability of banks to lend … and improving the cost of borrowing by lowering interest rates and making some asset purchases,” he said. In the longer term, the prospects for the UK economy were good, Carney said. “I have every confidence that this economy will adjust, and will adjust well.”  