Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Rail looks set to be granted a further, uncontested 12-month contract to run west coast intercity trains, after the government confirmed that the next winner of the franchise would also operate the first high-speed HS2 trains. A new delay in the Department for Transport’s franchising schedule has left the door open for Branson to keep the service for another year. Branson has taken an average £17m in annual dividends from Intercity West Coast, the London to Manchester, Liverpool and Glasgow service, over the last three years. The proposed West Coast Partnership franchise, announced on Friday by the DfT, will start no longer start in 2018 but rather in April 2019. The winner will run mainline trains from 2019 and be involved in the design and launch of high-speed services, before running HS2’s trains between London and Birmingham for three to five years from 2026.  The DfT said the joint franchise would attract “a world-class bidding group to develop and enhance the service”. Unions and Labour criticised the plan.  Transport minister Andrew Jones said: “We are embarking on a new chapter in our modernisation of the railways and we need world-class expertise to deliver it. HS2 will be the backbone of Britain’s railways, creating more seats for passengers on the west coast and increasing capacity on the rest of the network.  “By combining the franchise we are ensuring we get the right people on board at an early stage to design and manage the running of both services in the transition stage.”  In the first phase of HS2, trains will travel on new high-speed tracks between London and Birmingham and continue north from the West Midlands on the existing west coast mainline. Sir David Higgins, chairman of HS2 Ltd, said: “This is a real opportunity to ensure HS2 services complement and enhance existing ones. I have always been clear HS2 will not be a standalone railway but fully integrated with the wider network.” The government is expecting the winning bidder to work with HS2 Ltd in the design and launch of the high-speed train services. The opportunity to be the first operator of HS2 trains could be seen as an incentive to run a franchise which will be beset by disruption as the infrastructure is developed before 2026 – particularly in and out of London Euston, where the platforms will be rebuilt.  But analysts warned that committing to operate the new network would also carry substantial risk. The west coast timetable will be radically redrawn after HS2, which will provide faster intercity trains and free up more paths for commuter services on existing tracks.  Labour said that it would bring back the franchise into public ownership as soon as possible in government. Andy McDonald, the shadow transport secretary, said: “If we are going to invest billions of taxpayers’ money into HS2 it is right that the revenues go back to the exchequer and not straight into the hands of subsidy-dependent train operating companies.”  Mick Whelan, general secretary of the train drivers’ union Aslef, said that while the introduction of high-speed services was welcome, he “deplored ... this government’s continued obsession with the failed franchise model, which is selling commuters and businesses short, and the idea that the way forward is to allow a few people to make a private profit at public expense”. Christian Wolmar, the rail historian, said he doubted the planned, combined franchise could provide value for taxpayers. He warned: “Franchising is an unsuitable policy because of the way that railways change and transform, so predicting the passenger numbers for the future is a mug’s game.  “I don’t think that risk can be taken by the private sector without massive compensation. We will end up paying for a risk that cannot be transferred. It’s a crazy approach to running a rail service.” Just four years ago, Virgin took legal action to wrest back the lucrative west coast franchise after being outbid on the rights by rivals First Group. However, the DfT has since made a succession of direct awards, allowing Virgin to operate the franchise without competition until 2018.  According to accounts from Stagecoach, Branson’s 49% partner in Virgin Rail, net payments to the government from the west coast franchise over the last three years have totalled £375m, with dividends to the shareholders totalling £101m.  A detailed invitation to tender for the new franchise will be published in late 2017, with the winning bidder named the following year. 