Unilever’s chief financial officer has defended the company in its row with Tesco over price rises for household brands ranging from Marmite to Persil, describing the increases as “normal”. Tesco is running low on stock of a number of Unilever products – including Marmite, Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and Lynx body spray – after the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods company halted deliveries as a result of the dispute.  Unilever is one of Britain’s biggest suppliers of branded food and household goods and claims its products are found in 98% of UK households. Its brands also include Comfort, Dove, Hellmann’s, Magnum, Persil, Vaseline and PG Tips.  The company is trying to charge Tesco an extra 10% for its goods, blaming the pound’s fall against the euro and the dollar since the Brexit vote on 23 June. The row will be embarrassing for the supermarket’s chief executive, Dave Lewis, who was previously Unilever’s UK and Ireland chairman. Graeme Pitkethly, Unilever’s chief financial officer, insisted on Thursday morning that price increases to offset rising costs were a normal part of doing business. “We are taking price increases in the UK. That is a normal devaluation-led cycle,” he said. He said he was confident the dispute would be “resolved pretty quickly”. The UK accounts for less than 5% of Unilever’s business, Pitkethly said, as the company announced better than expected quarterly results after pushing through price increases around the world. The company posted underlying sales growth of 3.2% for the past three months, ahead of analysts’ expectations. UK consumers, however, have been told to brace themselves for price rises. Pinar Hosafci, a senior food analyst at Euromonitor International, said: “Brexit has been a trigger that started this and it is likely that other companies, which are reporting in euros, including the likes of Nestlé and Ferrero, will follow suit. This move could be more detrimental to Tesco than Unilever, which owns a number of power brands that are either leading or at best ranking in the second place.” The British Retail Consortium said shops would be doing their best to hold down prices for customers, but that the impact of the falling pound would eventually work its way through to shelf prices. Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the BRC, said: “Retailers are firmly on the side of consumers in negotiating with suppliers and improving efficiencies in the supply chain to control the inflationary pressure that is building through the devaluation of the pound. “However, years of falling shop prices and higher costs have left limited scope for retailers to continue absorbing this pressure, and everyone in the supply chain will need to play their part in maintaining low prices for consumers.” The big supermarkets are likely to fight particularly hard to prevent price rises as they are all battling to stop consumers taking their trade to discounters Aldi and Lidl, which sell more own-brand goods. Downing Street refused to comment on how retailers and suppliers should respond to the fall in sterling. A spokesman for Theresa May said: “It is a decision for companies how they market and sell their products … It is a commercial decision.”  Nick Lee, professor of marketing at Warwick Business School, said both Unilever and Tesco were gambling on their customers being loyal: “They need each other but are jockeying for best position in a new uncertain environment. I expect we’ll see a lot of this in the coming months as players in this space look to renegotiate deals, and try to play on public sympathy to pressure their negotiation partners.”  Roy Williams, the managing director of the supply chain consultants Vendigital, also said the Tesco row would be the first of many: “More disputes over prices are likely in the coming months, as many of the currency hedges that suppliers put in place to protect them from exchange-rate changes start to run out. Ultimately, the effect of these cost increases will be felt by consumers.” Shares in Unilever and Tesco opened lower on Thursday, with Unilever down by 2% and Tesco falling by 2.5%.  Neil Wilson, a market analyst at ETX Capital, said: “Against the backdrop of its spat with Tesco, the statement … highlights how cost pressures are creeping into UK retail, potentially knocking dividends and share prices for a number of well-known stocks.” Unilever has also tried to charge other retailers more, including Sainsbury’s, Asda and Morrisons. Speaking on Wednesday night, a source said: “Unilever is using Brexit as an excuse to raise prices, even on products that are made in the UK.” Marmite is produced in the UK in Burton-on-Trent, but Unilever pointed out that commodities are priced in dollars, affecting the cost of products even if they are made in Britain. The company reports in euros. Tesco said: “We are currently experiencing availability issues on a number of Unilever products. We hope to have this issue resolved soon.” A spokesman said the supermarket was offering Unilever products as usual in stores, even though they had vanished from its website. Down to the last three jars of Marmite at a local Tesco pic.twitter.com/DJVm6lhGhC Free postage though.. #Brexit #Marmitegate pic.twitter.com/1sCzd2DFdf Meanwhile, Marmite fans appeared unfazed by the dispute, posting pictures of bare-looking Tesco shelves on social media and, in one case, putting a used jar of Marmite up for sale on eBay for £100,000.  Eamon O’Hearn, the GMB union’s national officer for the food industry, said: “It’s very common for suppliers and retailers to renegotiate supply contracts but super-rich companies like Unilever must not be allowed to exploit the government’s chaotic handling of Brexit as an excuse for making workers and shoppers pay the price.” Nicholas Hyett, an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: “Tesco may choose to stand its ground on pricing, but history suggests that if other retailers can stomach the increase, consumers will be willing to stump up to get their Unilever fix.” He noted that Unilever had raised prices by 15.5% in Latin America after a currency devaluation. Despite the increase, consumers largely kept buying its products, with sales volumes down 5%. 