Post Office workers across the UK are striking today in protest against branch closures, job cuts and pension changes. About 4,000 members of the Communication Workers Union, which represents postal workers, and about 700 members of Unite, which acts for managers, are to picket around the country throughout the day. We asked staff why they were supporting the action. Many of their responses echo what Dave Ward, general secretary of CWU said in an opinion piece for the Guardian on Wednesday. Their main concerns are pension reforms, a culture of unattainable sales targets and job losses across the business. Below are their stories, which we’ve kept anonymous. From the Post Office’s own projection as to how their pension changes will affect me personally, I will be facing a 47% reduction. Having worked for the service for 14 years, this is why I will be striking. Who in their right mind would sit idly by and let this happen without fighting for a better deal?  As employees we are trying to focus on providing the best service we can despite the changes and disruption being constantly thrown at us. The government and Post Office management should accept that we are a vital service for communities across the length and breadth of the British Isles and properly fund it to maintain this service rather than trying their best to run it into the ground. Their actions are either deliberate or incompetent and I’m not sure which of those scares me the most. I like many others have been pushed to breaking point. The company I was once proud to work for no longer cares about me or our loyal customers. The once 18-strong workforce in our busy office is reduced to nine. Last week we had to open with just two staff due to holidays, long term sickness and bad management. It is so wrong and a complete breach of our security.  My pension is about to be slashed. I and many others have had our loyalty thrown back at us and job security taken from us by a higher management team that want us destroyed. The fact that no one cares and trying to do the job I love with less help than ever before  Many of us have worked and dedicated our lives to the Post Office – I’ve been here 20 years. Losing our branch offices and the knowledge of your dedicated workers is not good customer service at all. The smaller branches will not only have staff that are not trained, but will not be able to provide all the services to the customer or indeed the companies we represent. I’m tired of senior management running this business so badly. All they do is cut. They never look at ways to invest in people and products. They don’t look at ways to increase business with services the public actually want. The general public are tired of being flogged home phones and life insurance. The government needs to step up and take accountability for a public service rather than allowing branches to be closed. It also needs to take accountability for the decision to separate Royal Mail and the Post Office – huge mistake.  Sales targets are the biggest issue for me. We’re a public service, not a supermarket. People want good customer service, not a sales pitch every time they walk into a Post Office. If things keep on going this way the post office will cease to exist within 10 years, and the government will only have themselves to blame.  After 31 years with the Post Office I’m striking because I’m sick of being continually lied to, because offices are constantly being closed or franchised and because we as employees are continually forced to try to force products on customers who are sick of being targeted week in week out. The business has no plans for growth, just cuts, cuts and more cuts. Frontline staff are bullied to achieve unrealistic sales targets and continually blamed for not getting the sales, and there is no job security at all. Now the Post Office Ltd are planning to close our pension scheme, which is multi-award winning. This will leave thousands of colleagues with around 30% less in retirement. I’d say to them hands off. It’s ours.  Many colleagues have given 30-plus years service and have seen countless business reinvention programmes that have all failed miserably. The current board has also failed in its attempt to grow a business that is not a business and never will be. It needs to listen to the customers.  I will be supporting my ex-colleagues on the picket line because what management are doing to the Post Office is appalling. Staff are bullied into selling financial products whether they are suitable for the customer or not. Morale is the lowest it’s ever been – I used to love my job but in the end it made me ill and I couldn’t continue any longer. Staff have to record in a diary how many ‘conversations’ they have had and how many leads they have provided to the financial specialist and mortgage specialists – the customer base in my branch was mainly pensioners and asylum seekers, neither of whom qualify for a mortgage (or most of the other products to be honest) but this wasn’t taken into account.  I have been threatened and abused at work on many occasions (If I had a pound for every time a customer said to me ‘why don’t you get behind the counter instead of trying to sell us life insurance’ I’d be rich ...) I’d say to the government: think about the workers. Come and walk a mile in their shoes and see how you get on. I doubt any one of them would be able to stand the constant pressure of a working week behind the counter, trying to serve customers, putting up with abuse, trying to fit back office duties in while not making mistakes with money. It’s a nightmare.  I’m glad to be out of it but I feel for my colleagues who are a wonderful bunch of caring people. 