The family that turned a Harrow taxi firm into a postal company competing with the Royal Mail are in line for a £120m windfall after an agreed bid from Deutsche Post. UK Mail was founded by chairman Peter Kane in 1971 but he himself will get no direct benefit from the £243mtakeover offer, since he recently passed on his remaining stake to his family. Kane is notoriously publicity-shy but uses his wealth to invest in West End Musicals, including Breakfast at Tiffany’s which starred Pixie Lott. The biggest winner from the takeover will be Kane’s son John, who will receive £60m. His brother Michael, who used to be involved in the business, is set for £23m, his ex-wife Ghislaine £14m and his daughter Joanna Bailey and her husband £13m. With other family members including a young son, the Kanes own just over 50% of the business between them. The deal is likely to intensify competition in Britain’s postal market, putting further pressure on Royal Mail by allowing UK Mail to capitalise on the German group’s greater financial and operational firepower.  News of the bid sent UK Mail’s shares up by 43%, as investors welcomed the deal. .  It comes after a difficult period for UK Mail, in which problems at its automated sorting facility led to two profit warnings last year and the departure of the then chief executive, Guy Buswell.   Peter Kane said the offer from Deutsche Post, which is listed publicly and also owns logistics company DHL, gave shareholders the opportunity to cash in at a significant premium to the levels at which the share price had traded in recent months. “The board believes that UK Mail will benefit significantly from becoming part of Deutsche Post DHL, and will be better positioned to continue to develop our parcels and mail businesses with the benefit of Deutsche Post DHL’s greater financial and operational resources,” he said. ”There will be significant synergies including additional volumes flowing through our network from Deutsche Post DHL’s global operations.” UK Mail delivers parcels and mail from 50 sites, using 2,440 vehicles. Jürgen Gerdes, a board member at Deutsche Post DHL, said the deal would help the company satisfy increasing demand for cross-border parcel deliveries, driven by growth in e-commerce. “With this acquisition, we will further extend our network and have a strong foothold in Europe’s three largest e-commerce markets – the UK, Germany and France – which account for more than 60% of online retail in the continent,” he said. The postal market is undergoing a period of change, with declining volumes of letters and an increase in parcels as shopping moves online. This has led to fierce competition in the UK market, threatening the dominance of Royal Mail. The now privatised Royal Mail is the biggest parcel operator, but UK Mail, says it is the next largest group in the market, delivering for businesses such as O2 and TalkTalk. George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: “If competition weren’t already tough enough in the UK postal market, the big boy of European mail has just dived into the mix.  “Deutsche Post’s decision to buy struggling UK Mail adds a new player to the market with a meaningful UK footprint and lots of fire power. That has hit Royal Mail today, on fears that pricing pressure, that looked to be easing, might be about to enter a second round.” Royal Mail shares were down 3.3%.  