 From a smog-scrubbing tower to an affordable water purifier, we have seen bold ideas in 2015 for solving some of the toughest environmental problems. Here are five stories that highlight some of the technologies that promise to advance sustainability efforts by businesses and consumers. Artist Daan Roosegaarde and nanoparticle researcher Bob Ursem co-designed a 23-foot tower, installed in the Dutch city of Rotterdam, that sucks in air, filters air pollutants and expels cleaned air back to the outdoors. The two hope their idea will help cities such as Beijing fight smog. “We’ve installed it in a parking garage here in the Netherlands and it sucks and cleans both the inside and outside air,” Ursem says. “Inside the parking garage, the air became 70% cleaner.” Spain-based Vortex Bladeless is developing a turbine that it says will be less noisy and bird friendly. The cylindrical turbine generates electricity by harnessing the vibration caused by the wind. A generator then converts the resulting kinetic energy into electricity. “Wind turbines now are too noisy for people’s backyard,” says David Suriol, co-founder of the company. “We want to bring wind power generation to people’s houses like solar power.” Homes of today tend to get their electricity from fossil fuel-burning power plants that are miles away. Homes of tomorrow could produce their own, clean energy and while also using less power. That’s the idea behind several prototype homes in the US, Australia and Europe that are built to show and test technology that could reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Technologies that are featured in those homes include solar panels to produce electricity, thick windows and walls for better insulation, sensors and software to program lights and cooling or heating automatically throughout the day and night and battery packs to store solar electricity for use at night.  Lowering the levels of carbon dioxide, one of the greenhouse gases, is crucial for fighting climate change. A crop of startups are developing ways to capture that greenhouse gas from the air and sell it to companies that use it to make products such as diesel fuel. “Scientists are increasingly convinced that we are going to need large scale removal systems to fight climate change,” says Noah Deich, founder of nonprofit Center for Carbon Removal. “I’m excited about direct air capture. It could be a really important technology to add to the portfolio.” A Texas teen, Perry Alagappan, won a water technology design prize in Sweden last August with a filter that he estimates would cost $20 to make. The filter, built with graphene nanotubes, could remove 99% of the heavy metals from water that runs through it. It could be particularly useful in cleaning up rivers contaminated with metals from electronic recycling factories that dotted Asia. The filter could be used again after a rinse with a vinegar concoction to remove the captured metals, which could then be sold to make products such as mobile phones. “I became interested in water purification when I visited my grandparents in India, and saw with my own eyes how electronic waste severely contaminated the environment,” Alagappan says. 