Britain’s vast services sector defied gloomy expectations to continue growing after the Brexit vote and the economy was expanding faster than previously thought in the run-up to the referendum. The first official figures on how the biggest sector of Britain’s economy fared after the decision to leave the EU, showed services output rose 0.4% in July, improving on June’s growth of 0.3%.  That was at odds with business surveys of the sector, which includes government services, retail and banking. They had suggested it suffered an initial slump after the referendum before rebounding in August. But the Office for National Statistics said there was little sign of a referendum blow. “Despite some very weak indicators appearing in the immediate aftermath of the referendum, estimates gathered by ONS from more than 23,000 firms now suggest that the services sector – which accounts for three-quarters of the economy – in fact grew strongly in July,” said the statistics office’s head of GDP, Darren Morgan. “Further information also suggests that the whole economy also grew slightly more strongly in the months before polling day than previously thought. “Together this fresh data tends to support the view that there has been no sign of an immediate shock to the economy, although the full picture will continue to emerge.” As part of data released on Friday, the ONS revised up its estimates for GDP growth in the second quarter to 0.7% from 0.6% previously. It was still a slowdown compared with the first quarter however, when the economy grew by 0.8%. 1.0% growth in Business Investment in Q2, led by investment in transport equipment https://t.co/f1xBh5OuH7 #GDP Consumers continued to drive much of the growth in the second quarter, but there were renewed signs households were eating into savings to fund their spending.  The savings ratio – the share of households’ income they do not spend – fell to its lowest since the onset of the financial crisis in 2008. But business investment grew by more than previously thought in the quarter, suggesting companies were not as nervous about spending before the referendum as economists had feared. The Chancellor @PHammondMP comments on the latest @ONS economic data. pic.twitter.com/dQURnmHvrL Chancellor Philip Hammond seized on the latest figures as evidence the economy entered the post-referendum period uncertainty enjoying solid growth. “The UK started the year in a position of economic strength, and we can see today that this momentum has continued in the services sector – the largest part of our economy,” he said in a statement. “We want to build on this strength as we forge a new relationship with the EU and deliver an economy that works for all.” The figures will cast doubt on whether the Bank of England will follow through on hints at another interest rate cut before the end of the year.  Amid downbeat signals on the referendum’s impact on business and consumer sentiment, its monetary policy committee (MPC), led by governor Mark Carney, cut official borrowing costs to 0.25% and expanded the Bank’s electronic money printing programme in August. They signalled at the time and again this month that rates could be cut further to 0.1%. Reacting to the latest data, Samuel Tombs, at the consultancy Pantheon Macroeconomics said: “The jump in services output in July is the clearest sign yet that the Brexit vote has not pushed the economy into a recession.” He predicted that growth would still slow in the third quarter, the months of July to September, probably to about 0.5%. But that may not be enough of a deterioration to prompt more Bank of England action. “Since the MPC expected GDP growth to slow to 0.2% in the third quarter, considerable doubt is now cast over whether the MPC with cut interest rates again in November,” Tombs added. Alan Clarke, head of European fixed income strategy at Scotiabank, said much would depend on the official estimate of third quarter GDP growth released at the end of October. Growth of just 0.1% would prompt more action from the MPC, growth of 0.4% or more would make policymakers sit tight. “Sadly we fear that growth will be in that awkward middle ground of 0.2-0.3% which makes calling the next move tricky,” he added.  Despite the stronger-than-expected services data, the ONS warned against reading too much into one month’s figures and economists highlighted potential challenges ahead for the UK as it embarks on Brexit negotiations.  Some drew attention to the latest figures on the UK’s trading position released with the GDP report. The current account deficit widened from £27bn in the first quarter to £28.7bn in the second, or 5.9% of GDP. The current account deficit reflects Britain’s trade gap with the rest of the world and the shortfall between money paid out by the UK and money coming in. The British Chambers of Commerce said the latest figures underscored how trade was a big drag on growth for the UK even before the vote to leave the EU. “The pick-up in growth in the second quarter is likely to be as good as it gets for some time, with the mounting economic and political uncertainty weighing heavily on the UK’s near-term growth prospects,” said Suren Thiru, the group’s head of economics. 