 Chris Taylor, the Gloucestershire batsman with that slender choirboy physique and tidy repertoire of off-side shots, denied Warwickshire any chance of a snatched win after they had been allowed for a time to retrieve the initiative and bring an elusive purpose and interest to the last day of the Gloucester Festival. He had scored a hundred in the first innings. Now, as Gloucestershire suddenly started sacrificing wickets with submissive alacrity, Taylor steadied such wanton tendencies, well aware that the generally predicted meaningless draw was not quite a formality after all. This time he reached 77, eighth to go, and with his county easing to safety his final lofted drive was oddly cavalier. Ian Westwood seemed first to misjudge the ball's flight, recovering to hold on spectacularly. This was the end of another crisp, confident performance by Taylor who is showing some of his best form. His dozen boundaries were again neatly driven. It was a pity that any real evidence of a festival crowd had largely dispersed by then, reasonably anticipating no belated entertainment or even a fluctuating balance. Warwickshire's surfeit of dour batting, exemplified by Tony Frost's monumental exercise in undiluted application, as he took up residence for his career-best 144 not out, had amply made the point. Yet his hypnotic approach was not to be disparaged. There were virtues to be seen as Gloucestershire went on to lose a cluster of wickets, putting Warwickshire back in with what looked like a genuine chance. A break for rain did not help them. At the start Warwickshire had gone on to finish only 10 runs behind the home county. Gloucestershire's response was needlessly careless. The runs were coming too freely from Craig Spearman and any King's School boys back from half-term who were reminded of his triple hundred on this ground against Middlesex were disappointed as he gave a simple catch to mid-off. It was contagious: Will Porterfield chased a wide delivery to be taken at the wicket; Hamish Marshall and Alex Gidman - two ducks from him - both went lbw to Neil Carter, while the injured Jon Lewis was rapidly called back into service. As it was, it ended in a draw. 