Call of Duty may be able to prop up a single-player campaign with a compelling online offering, but the Wanderer takes that and raises it to the next level 
 “They’re here. Oh god! They’ve found you!” Do you run, or hide? That’s the choice that opens the Wanderer choose your own adventure, which uses a network of interconnected Twitter accounts to take the player on an enigmatic journey in which they escape – or don’t – from mysterious pursuers. Created by the web developer Terence Eden, the game is a promotional tool, of sorts, for Timothy Jarvis’s upcoming book of the same name. But it also serves as a testament to mankind’s ability (and desire) to make a game on any platform possible. Of course, as a game … it’s lacking. The graphics, entirely text, belong in an era long gone. Sure, evocative passages such as this: All that glisters is not gold. The detonation rips you in half. They feast on your remains. may be beautiful nuggets, perfectly turning Twitter’s limits into strengths and leaving the horror in what is unsaid. But the polygon count is low, and the sort of physics-led visual effects we’ve become used to with the rise of next-gen consoles such as the PS4 and Xbox One are non-existent. The playtime is short, too. Gamers used to 60-hour epics such as Grand Theft Auto V or Skyrim will find themselves blowing through this in less than a thousandth of the time. Multiple endings ease the pain slightly, but a skilled gamer will still have seen all the Wanderer has to offer in under five minutes. But where the game really shines is its multiplayer. We’ve become used to franchises such as Call of Duty propping up a lacklustre single-player campaign with a compelling online offering, but the Wanderer takes that and raises it to the next level. Embedded within the game itself is a fully fledged social experience with more that 300 million active participants. While it may take a while to get the hang of things, the “Twitter” mode is utterly compelling. It has few failure states, easing the burden on new players, and supports cross-play through a number of platforms: primarily mobile, but also desktop and most major consoles. It’s even compatible with the latest generation of smartwatches. So give it a go. The first game starts here, but who knows where it ends: They’re here. Oh god! They’ve found you! Run: @wnd_run Hide: @wnd_hide The Wanderer (Free, Twitter) is out now. 