John Lewis and Next, two of the country’s biggest retailers, have reported falling profits as Britons slash spending on clothing and the internet sucks sales out of high street stores. Next chief executive, Simon Wolfson, batted away talk of a July retail sales bounce after it was forced to discount heavily in the wake of poor summer sales in its stores. The retailer revealed 30% more clothing went into its end-of-season sale which contributed to a near-17% fall in first-half profits at its high street store division. He said trading remained “challenging and volatile” as Britons opted to spend spare cash on eating out and other leisure pursuits.  The weak performance worried investors, making Next the second biggest faller in the FTSE 100 with its shares losing almost 5%. The grim picture it painted of high street trading conditions also weighed on the fortunes of rival Marks & Spencer, whose shares were pulled down 2.6%. The gloom was compounded by the John Lewis Partnership, which said it was scaling back the expansion of its Waitrose supermarket chain and warned of further job losses. Pre-tax profits for the group fell 14.7% to £81.9m, excluding exceptional property items, for the six months to the end of July. Operating profits slumped 31.2% at John Lewis, as its Never Knowingly Undersold promise forced it to match rivals promotions, while Waitrose saw a 10.5% fall. John Lewis Partnership chairman, Sir Charlie Mayfield, said the performance reflected the decision to invest in its infrastructure as well as to improve staff pay levels. “We have grown gross sales and market share across both Waitrose and John Lewis, but our profits are down,” he said. “This reflects market conditions and steps we are taking to adapt the partnership for the future.” The company, which is owned by its employees– known as partners, said it was taking a £25m writedown relating to sites it had acquired to build seven Waitrose supermarkets that it no longer plans to open. It will instead invest money in sprucing up existing branches, adding new attractions such as wine and sushi bars, which appeal to its upmarket shoppers. The divergence between the performance of each chain’s physical and internet presence showed the challenge bricks and mortar retailers face in a digital age. While sales at established Waitrose stores fell 1%, in line with a fall in its food prices, they were up 4.3% online. At John Lewis department store sales fell 1%, while its website recorded a 18.4% sales surge. Next’s first half performance was shored up by a recovery at its internet arm Directory, where profits rose 10.9% to £204.2m. As a result, Next’s pre-tax profit for the six months to the end of July was down just 1.5% at £342.1m. To adapt to this sea change in shopping habits, John Lewis has been investing heavily and last week unveiled the £150m extension to its Milton Keynes depot that will boost efficiency at its home shopping business before the key Christmas period. The retailer banks at least two-thirds of its annual profits in the second half. Mayfield said it had also increased pay for its lowest-paid partners by £33m – £30m more than was required by the introduction of the national living wage – but warned there would be a steady reduction in staff numbers from now on after cutting about 1,500 jobs last year. “We anticipate that this will mean we will have fewer partners over time compared with today,” he said. Mayfield said John Lewis had felt little effect from the vote to leave the EU, but that uncertainty created by the referendum result would linger. One immediate impact of the Brexit vote was that the group’s pension deficit soared by £512m to £1.44bn in the first half, because of falling yields on bonds used to fund the scheme.  Wolfson warned in March that the high street would suffer the most difficult trading conditions this year since the financial crisis. At the time he likened conditions to “walking up the down escalator”. The retailer expects its full-price sales to either grow or contract by 2.5% this year, and Wolfson said he hoped to present a clearer picture of trading in November when it reports its third-quarter sales. “We will hopefully have a bit of cold weather then and be able to see the reaction to our winter ranges, because at the moment it’s impossible to read because no one is buying winter ranges,” Wolfson said. 