Books by two journalists, one a Pulitzer prizewinner, the other a Nobel laureate, have made it to the shortlist announced on Monday for the £30,000 Baillie Gifford prize for non-fiction. One is a study of life in the Soviet Union just before the system collapsed, by the Belarusian campaigning journalist Svetlana Alexievich, which won her last year’s Nobel prize for literature. The other is a memoir of life growing up in a privileged black district of Chicago by the Pulitzer prizewinning critic Margo Jefferson.  Alexievich’s hugely admired Second-Hand Time, translated by Bela Shayevich, won her the Nobel for what the judges described as “her polyphonic writings, a monument to suffering and courage in our time”. Jefferson won the Pulitzer for her work as a theatre critic on the New York Times, and is now a professor of writing at Columbia. Negroland, her memoir of growing up in a society defined by her mother as “upper-class Negroes and upper-middle-class Americans”, has already won the National Book Critics Award in the US. The highly political list, including books tackling racism, discrimination and social justice, is completed by East West Street by human rights lawyer Philippe Sands, a study of the Nuremberg trials taking in his own family history; and Hisham Matar’s The Return: Fathers, Sons and the Land in Between,   a heartbreaking account of his return to Libya to search for the truth of his father’s disappearance under the brutal regime of Colonel Gaddafi. Stephanie Flanders, chair of the judges, said that the four very different books had emphasis on the first person and firsthand reporting in common. “Some shortlists are creatures of compromise. You end up with a list that everyone can live with, rather than a set of titles that each judge can wholeheartedly endorse. But I’m delighted to say there was no need for messy compromises this year – or even much debate. Of the many superb books on the longlist, these are the four books that each of us would be happy so see win.  “There are voices and stories in these books that we haven’t heard before and which are going to stay with me for a very long time.”  The winner will be announced on 15 November. The four titles on this year’s shortlist are:  