 Warning: this car may change your politics. I've just told the occupants of the passenger seat and the child seat behind, who were complaining of being cold, to put another jumper on. Suddenly I'm David bloody Cameron and his energy secretary. We did put the heating on, but the range indicator immediately dropped from 68 miles to 60, so we, that is, I turned it off again. I've already banned music. Sing, it might keep you warm, I tell them. The people in the car go shiver shiver shiver, shiver shiver shiver, shiver shiver shiver, the people in the car do nothing nothing nothing, cos Daddy's a c-word. They don't have spare jumpers, they moan. I should have warned them before we set off that we were Tories. It's all about the range indicator when you're driving one of these. You become obsessed, to the point that your driving (as well as your politics, possibly) changes radically. I'm planning, looking far ahead, for junctions, lights, pedestrian crossings, anything that's going to make me slow down. I will not use the brake. It must be bloody annoying for anyone behind. But I'm having a good time: it adds a new dimension, excitement even, to a journey. It's something that not a lot of people know: electric cars are fun to drive. Didn't we do a Leaf before? Well remembered. But this new one is lighter, more powerful, will go farther, has more luggage space and is more practical. It's also got an improved heating system, which doesn't use up too much… yeah, but it's still robbing me of eight miles, so I'm not using it, OK? More significantly, the new Leaf is cheaper – down to less than £16,000 (including a £5,000 government grant) if you're prepared to lease the battery for £70 a month. Still not dirt cheap, but when you consider Nissan's claimed running costs of just 2.5p per mile, it starts to look more attractive. Oh, and it's now made in Britain, too. They – Leafs, and other electric vehicles – will continue to get better and go farther. And the infrastructure will improve, too. The Leaf's improved range is up to 124 miles, though you'll do that only if you drive it as if you're making love to it. Gently and tantrically. Eighty is more realistic. That's obviously the most important factor. If a) you never need to go farther (plus, you can easily charge from your home), a Leaf could make a lot of sense. If b) you do, occasionally, want to do greater distances, it makes no sense. Yet. I'm b). Except maybe I'll get a Leaf to zip about town in, to show I care. And a sneaky Range Rover, for taking to the Cotswolds at weekends. But then I am a Tory c-word. Price From £15,990Top speed 100mphAcceleration 0-60mph in 11.5 secondsRange 124 milesGreen rating 9/10Cool rating 7/10 