 Andrew Flintoff took a wicket with his first ball and a stupendous slip catch to confirm his readiness to lead England at Old Trafford next week, irrespective of a batting failure. Flintoff's first-class comeback had not initially been going to plan, as the first of the two innings he will have before the second Test against Pakistan lasted only eight balls. Then he came on first change from the Nackington Road end for the 10th over of Kent's reply and immediately plucked out the off stump of Rob Key, a close friend whose wedding celebrations he had attended the previous evening, with a sharp off-cutter. Watched by Kevin Shine - the England bowling coach who was also monitoring the fitness or form of James Anderson, Sajid Mahmood and Glen Chapple - Flintoff then pinned Martin van Jaarsveld lbw with an inswinging yorker and took a stunning one-handed catch to match Paul Collingwood's in the first Test at Lord's, as Lancashire hit back hard after a poor collective batting performance. A spell of 6-1-11-2 followed by another tight four-over burst before the close removed any lingering doubts about Flintoff's recovery from his latest ankle problem as he thundered in, generated considerable pace and occasionally followed through extravagantly, marking Van Jaarsveld's wicket with a fist-pumping celebration that would not have been out of place in an Ashes decider. He will be keen to have a longer knock in the second innings - he has not scored a half-century in any cricket all season - after being caught behind off Kent's impressive South African import Tyron Henderson, cutting at a ball that was too close to him. He had managed only two scoring shots, one of them off a friendly leg-side full toss from Amjad Khan, although even that was an improvement on the duck he had in his first championship innings last season at Worcester, where he made 83 later in the match. Flintoff's presence overshadowed a crucial game for Lancashire, who are challenging for their first outright championship since 1934, while Kent have not wasted the chance to capitalise on this rare and unexpected county appearance. At regular intervals the ground announcer informed a crowd not noticeably swelled by the Freddie factor that the great man would be appearing at David Fulton's latest benefit function at the Blazing Donkey tonight - in Ham, near Sandwich, which provoked some Lancastrian titters. The Kent shop was also offering a shamelessly opportunist book entitled "When Freddie met Freddie" about a cartoon cricket ball by the former England captain Chris Cowdrey. After a warm-up supervised by the Lancashire and England physio Dave Roberts - who had earlier conducted a one-on-one with Anderson, now less than a month away from a comeback following back problems - Flintoff stayed out of sight in the pavilion for three hours after Mark Chilton won the toss and chose to bat. However not for the first time Lancashire were stung by swing at a sultry Canterbury and they slipped to 92 for four as Iain Sutcliffe lost his off stump to Amjad's off-cutter, Mal Loye and Chilton were caught behind and Nathan Astle drove loosely at an outswinger and edged to second slip. Stuart Law held firm to reach a 75-ball half-century with the usual quota of handsome off-drives but when Henderson followed Flintoff's wicket with a hostile short ball that Chapple could only fend to short leg, he had four for 11 from 10 overs and Lancashire were 102 for six. But that drew an exhilarating response from Gareth Cross, a young wicketkeeper from Bury playing his second championship match, who plundered 72 from 56 balls including 10 fours and three sixes - a cut over backward point, a drive over extra cover, and the best of them flicked imperiously off Martin Saggers over mid-wicket. Amjad then returned to trap Cross lbw for his third wicket and Saggers, exploiting the swing with typical intelligence on his own comeback from a worrying foot injury which had kept him out since April, collected the last two to end with three for 38. Flintoff's catch then ended Fulton's determined effort to consolidate Kent's advantage and Darren Stevens was strangled down the leg side by Dominic Cork, but Matthew Walker capitalised on a let-off from Law to hold things together. 