 Greg Rusedski assured himself a seeding at the US Open, and Tim Henman gained a useful revenge as both Britons reached the quarter-finals of the Masters Series event with encouraging performances.  It was hard to believe that only a short time ago Rusedski's career was in danger and that last month Henman was wandering in limbo, coach-less and uncertain which direction to take next.  Now, after a 7-5, 6-3 victory over Nicolas Kiefer, there is little doubt. Henman turned and raised both fists in the direction of his new coach, Larry Stefanki, after overcoming the German who beat him in the Hong Kong final, by and large adopting the tactics of moving forward at every opportunity, which the American coach espouses. There is no doubt that their association, initially on trial until after the US Open, which starts in just over two weeks, has been cemented.  What a difference a change can make. Rusedski knows that better than anyone, having discarded coaches quicker than some people throw away paper towels. But having taken an enormous risk by allowing Brad Langevad to take his game to pieces, something usually impossible in a 27-year-old, it now seems to be sticking together with remarkable adhesion.  Rusedski trampled all over Stefan Koubek, who has troubled him in the past, winning 6-3, 6-3 in the time it took Henman to complete one set. Even though Koubek contested some line calls, slammed an advertising board and refused to shake hands with the umpire, there was no doubt Rusedski deserved his win. The lower service toss worked well and surprisingly he was more effective off the ground than the Austrian.  It was all the more surprising because Rusedski made outspoken criticisms about the balls, suggesting they contributed to the defeats of Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras. "They are too hard and too quick," Rusedski claimed. "When we change from one ball to a completely fast ball it is difficult to adjust. You need a win to do that, and Agassi and Sampras couldn't get that." Rusedski next plays Patrick Rafter in a repeat of the 1997 US Open final.  Henman's win guaranteed him an unseeded opponent, though his progress required him to save two set points on his serve at 3-5. Kiefer helped him out when serving for the first set by delivering two double faults for which Henman claimed some credit.  "It goes back to me putting doubts in his mind," he said. Henman himself served two doubles to lose a 3-1 second-set lead and blamed himself for rushing. But by and large this was a positive performance in which Henman's desire appeared to get Kiefer down mentally.  If either Briton can continue his run, the draw is opening up nicely. Sampras became the 10th of the 16 seeds to come to a sweaty end, the record seven-times Wimbledon winner constantly worrying about his grip, the handle, his hand and the streams of perspiration and too many other things except the calm and steady Spaniard Alberto Martin.  When Martin broke serve with a top-spin lob winner halfway through the first set, Sampras slung his racket across the court into his bag and never recovered his equilibrium.  Martin, who considered quitting a couple of years ago, went on to a career-best win, triumphing 6-4, 6-4. 