 Apple is throwing its weight around in an attempt to stem the tide of leaks that preceded the launch of the iPhone 6 and 6+, as the rumour mill begins to turn its attention to the next in line. Accessory manufacturers ​are the latest group to be on the receiving end of Apple’s ​attentions, and the company has reportedly written to them warning that they should not be reading rumours as they prepare to design accessories for the next generation of​ iPhones. According to 9to5Mac’s Jordan Kahn, the company asked manufacturers to sign an agreement which reads, in part: “Should Apple find that, prior to the release of a product, you have sought, obtained, or relied upon specifications of that product from sources other than Apple, Apple may choose to exercise its right to take action against you, which penalties can include, but are not limited to, Apple choosing not to stock your product in our stores.” Before the iPhone 6 was released, a number of extremely accurate leaks about the device’s look and feel were traced back to accessory makers. In April 2014, for instance, almost six months before the phone hit stores, a rumour site called Ukrainian iPhone posted images of computer renders which manufacturers were using to design cases for the new device. But questions remain as to whether Apple’s new hardball approach will actually succeed in stemming the tide of leaks. The vast majority – by units sold, if not by profit made – of iPhone case manufacturers have little to do with the Californian firm itself. The sort of cases picked up for pocket change in a roadside kiosk are unlikely to ever be stocked in the Apple Store and do​ not have the company’s “Made for iPhone” branding, leaving Apple with little leverage over what they do and don’t look at. Larger accessory manufacturers, however, might feel the strain, particularly given the broad phrasing of the agreement. Kahn writes that “after consulting Apple about the agreement’s language, one developer said that it amounted to a prohibition on reading any web site or newspaper that even discussed upcoming Apple products, including The New York Times”. 