 Andy Murray must get tired of being told to cheer up, especially these days when he has so much to be cheerful about, but even he laughed when a small child went marching up to him yesterday at his first public appearance since reaching the US Open final and told him that he ought to smile more. Murray, who was meeting competition winners at the David Lloyd Leisure Centre in Raynes Park, south-west London, took it in good heart. "It brings you back down to earth when these kids are just saying whatever they feel," he said. Murray himself has never been backward in coming forward with opinions and that was the case again yesterday when he suggested that he would have preferred to play this weekend's Davis Cup tie against Austria on an indoor hard court rather than the Wimbledon grass chosen by the captain, John Lloyd. Murray's vulnerable right knee - he was born with a kneecap in two parts - tends to suffer when he changes surfaces and he has been feeling some discomfort since he began practising at Wimbledon last week. "I agree 100% that grass is our best chance to win the match and who John picks in the team and what surface he plays on is his decision and that's why he's the captain of the team, but ideally I would have preferred to play on hard court," said Murray, who is scheduled to face the Austrian No2, Alexander Peya, on Friday. "It's aggravating to my knee. It's not aggravating to me; I don't get angry about having to play on grass. I've known it was going to be on that surface for a long time. It just takes four or five days for my bones and muscles to get used to it again because it's very different - the movement and the feeling.  "You can come off at the US Open and feel stiff the next day but here it's very different. Your lower back and your glutes and hamstrings get really tight because the balls are bouncing very low. It takes a while to get used to. I've been doing light practice and now I will start to build up so that I'm ready when Davis Cup comes around. I just need to make sure I keep on top of it. It's not good, obviously, to be playing on something when you're in pain but it's not terrible pain right now. It's just that when I do a sort of switch like that it's sore for a few days." Murray's caution about his knee is understandable. He showed by reaching the final of the US Open, where he beat Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals before losing to Roger Federer, that he is in the form of his life. He is wary of losing a momentum that he hopes will take him through the rest of this season and into an even more successful 2009, starting with a serious tilt at the Australian Open in January.  "It has given me extra motivation more than anything, because I always believed I could win a slam," said Murray. "Even though I got beaten pretty comfortably in the final, you're motivated because you've got that far. But also you understand that you need to work a lot on your game, get fitter, get stronger - that's what I look forward to doing again in December. I've already talked to my fitness trainers about what I'm going to do." Murray is very likely to partner his brother Jamie in Saturday's Davis Cup doubles and was unhappy with suggestions over the weekend of a rift between them.  "Me and Jamie are fine. We've played doubles loads of times and had arguments when we've been on court from the first time we played," he said. "You ask the Bryan brothers. They've punched each other after matches - and they're the best doubles team in the world. It happens. All brothers and sisters fight. I think that me and Jamie, since we've been young, have always argued and fought. It's not at all a problem now and I'm sure it won't be a problem at the weekend." 