Conservative politicians have lined up to criticise Mark Carney in the most sustained pressure applied to a governor of the Bank of England since the central bank gained independence over monetary policy in 1998. In the run-up to the EU referendum, Tories accused Carney of interfering in the campaign by warning about the economic effects of a vote to leave.  Since the vote, Carney has faced a series of rebukes over the effects of low interest rates and quantitative easing, triggering talk of an effort to pass the blame for the economic consequences of Brexit to the BoE or to drive the governor out of his job. Here are some of the Tory criticisms of Carney: On 8 March, the backbencher Jacob Rees-Mogg accused Carney of intervening in the referendum debate when the BoE should have kept out. What concerns me is that the influence and the strength of the Bank of England is in its Olympian detachment from day to day political partisanship. And in your evidence, in your letter and in your speech you are getting into political partisanship, removing yourself from your Olympian detachment, damaging the Bank’s ability to regulate through influence, which has historically been just as important as the letter of the law. On 13 June, Bernard Jenkin, who chairs the public administration and constitutional affairs committee, wrote to Carney telling him to stay out of the referendum debate just as he would a general election. You are prohibited from making any public comment, or doing anything which could be construed as taking part in the referendum debate. I have taken legal advice from Speakers’ Counsel . . . [and] wanted to take the opportunity to stress the importance of this matter. I very much hope you will avoid doing anything which could suggest you or the Bank have disregarded parliament’s wishes. On 16 June, cabinet member Boris Johnson said the BoE risked undermining economic confidence by issuing warnings about the potential effects of a vote for Brexit. We shouldn’t be talking this country down. It’s a great country and a great economy. I think it will flourish outside the EU. Also on 16 June, former Tory leaders Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard included the BoE in an attack on scaremongering about the economic implications of a vote to leave the EU. There has been startling dishonesty in the economic debate, with a woeful failure on the part of the Bank of England, the Treasury, and other official sources to present a fair and balanced analysis. They have been peddling phoney forecasts and scare stories to back up the attempts of David Cameron and George Osborne to frighten the electorate into voting Remain. On 22 September, the former chancellor Nigel Lawson called on Carney to resign and accused him of being a doom-monger before and after the referendum. He’s behaved disgracefully. I have known all six of his predecessors as governor of the Bank of England and not one of them would have thought it proper to behave as he has done, particularly during the campaign when he joined in the chorus of scaremongering. He wasn’t the worst but he shouldn’t have joined in it at all. Now he is seeking to validate the improper remarks he made during the campaign. It is appalling and I think the sooner he stands down from the governorship, the better. On 6 October, Theresa May criticised the BoE’s decisions on monetary policy in her party conference speech. While monetary policy – with super-low interest rates and quantitative easing – provided the necessary emergency medicine after the financial crash, we have to acknowledge there have been some bad side effects. People with assets have got richer. People without them have suffered. People with mortgages have found their debts cheaper. People with savings have found themselves poorer. A change has got to come. And we are going to deliver it. When Carney responded on 14 October by saying the BoE would not be directed by politicians, the Tory backbencher David Davies tweeted that it was right for May to issue instructions. Mr Carney you are an unelected bank official. Theresa May has got every right to tell you how to do your job! https://t.co/HDEiofZqgn  On 18 October, William Hague, the former foreign secretary, wrote in the Telegraph that low rates and QE had hit savers and pension funds and increased inequality. Eight years after the global financial crisis [central banks] are still pursuing emergency policies that are becoming steadily more unpopular and counterproductive. Unless they change course soon, they will find their independence increasingly under attack … The policies of any one central bank may well be perfectly rational, including the recent decisions of the Bank of England after the referendum. But so is a decision by any one sheep to run with the flock when in danger.  On 21 October, Michael Gove, the former justice secretary and Tory leadership candidate, said Carney could not accept criticism and that questioning his decisions was treated like a thought crime.  Mr Carney should ponder the fate of the Chinese emperors, overwhelmed by forces they could not control because they could not bear to accept any criticism, and recognise that nothing so enhances authority as a dash – now and then – of humility.” 