The strength of Britain’s high street sales appears to be waning after shops reported a weaker than expected September. The CBI’s health check of retailers and wholesale businesses found that the balance of firms reporting a fall in sales over the last year dropped to -8 from a high of +9 in August. Good weather in much of the country failed to prevent a decline in sales of groceries, food and drink and leather. Steady sales of clothing and footwear and DIY goods kept the tills ringing enough for a balance of +7% of retailers to say that their sales volumes in September were good for the time of year. Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, said: “The softer CBI distributive trades survey for September could be a sign that consumers are becoming more careful in their spending amid a more uncertain economic outlook following June’s Brexit vote. “However, it is premature to come to any firm conclusions. The CBI survey may simply indicate that consumers took a breather in September after spending at a robust clip over the summer and through the second quarter,” he said. The latest data from the Office for National Statistics show that retail sales volumes were up 6.2% in August on the year before after a huge post-Brexit vote bounce in July, when sales volumes increased by 1.9% on June. Archer said there was little sign of a sudden drop in sales, despite the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of Brexit negotiations. “The fundamentals are currently still pretty healthy for consumers with employment at a record high and purchasing power benefiting from earnings growth running well above consumer price inflation. “Specifically, employment was up 174,000 in the three months to July while earnings growth of 2.3% in the three months to July (the usual benchmark used) was 1.7 percentage points above consumer price inflation of 0.6% in both July and August.” Ruth Gregory, UK economist at Capital Economics, said the situation for shoppers may worsen over the next six months as inflation increases and wage rises stagnate or fall back towards 1%, squeezing real disposable incomes. But low interest rates and the likelihood that the government will relax its austerity measures will act as a counterbalance. 