 The company behind the hit game Angry Birds has criticised "insulting" attempts by western companies to crack the Chinese market by using the cliches of "kung fu and pandas". Marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka said Rovio has "all eyes on Asia" as its biggest download market and are prioritising growth in China by "exporting Chinese culture". "We want to be more Chinese than China, just as in Japan we want to be more Japanese than Japan," he said. "We employ local people and need to understand local customs and culture. There is more to China than kung fu and pandas - that is an insult to thousands of years of history." Vesterbacka explained that Rovio released an international update to Angry Birds Seasons based on China's moon festival, a mid-autumn family celebration of the end of harvest. The Moon Festival episode of the game features Chinese versions of the theme tune, characters and backgrounds, as well as Angry Bird-branded traditional moon cakes. "The moon festival is little heard of outside China, so the first time many people heard about it was through our game. Not only are we bringing Angry Birds to China but we're bringing China to the world. We are one of the biggest exporters and promoters of Chinese culture on the planet." Rovio's first office outside its Finnish headquarters in Helsinki was in Shanghai, and China now accounts for "hundreds of millions" of downloads, Vesterbacka said. Japan, Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines are all big markets for Rovio but China accounts for more downloads, he said. An estimated 288 million people play mobile games in China, according to researchers at Niko Partners, which said mobile gaming revenue for 2013 would reach $1.2bn. Rovio's revenue doubled in 2012 to $204m, with physical merchandise accounting for 45% of revenues. Vesterbacka, speaking at Helsinki's technology festival Slush, also announced that Angry Birds has reached 2bn downloads, before ushering on a Angry Birds-themed dance performance by Finland's National Ballet. • Rovio partners with Chinese games company GungHo from 18 November to 1 December on an Angry Birds-themed dungeon in the Puzzle & Dragons game • Rovio sets sights on Hollywood 