 A leading figure behind England’s 2018 World Cup bid has described Sepp Blatter’s statement that the tournament was always destined for Russia as “an absolute scandal”. Simon Johnson, the campaign’s chief operating officer, believes the Football Association should take legal action against Fifa to recover the costs of a bid they were never going to win. “It’s an absolute scandal,” Johnson told the Guardian. “I no longer work for the FA but I personally think they should bring an action to recover the costs of a bidding process which was neither fair nor transparent and we’ve now discovered was rigged. “I think the FA has an obligation to bring an action against Fifa to recover not just their own costs but those incurred by the 12 host cities who were part of the bid, our sponsors, contractors and the government. “The FA entered into a contract with Fifa to run a bid in accordance with certain rules – each bidder had to sign a bidding agreement – and, in my view, that contract has been invalidated. Fifa didn’t keep their side of the bargain. I think the bid’s sponsors [companies including Npower, Morrisons and Jaguar Land Rover] are entitled to say to the FA: ‘You have a duty to recover the money we’ve spent.’” Previously a leading sports and media lawyer and senior FA official, Johnson is now chief executive of the Jewish Leadership Council but he retains an acute interest in the next step taken by his former employers. “The FA would have to bring an action under arbitration at the court of arbitration for sport,” he said. “I’m sure the football associations from all the countries bidding for 2018 will be digging up their individual costs. I think Fifa have been a bit nervous about individual FAs bringing actions against them.” Portugal-Spain and Belgium-Holland also mounted campaigns. Accordingly, the possibility of the world governing body attempting to reach out-of-court settlements has been raised in the light of a precedent involving the Irish FA being paid, it said, €5m as compensation for the refereeing error – the Thierry Henry handball incident during a play-off against France – which denied them the chance to participate in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. Whichever way the matter is eventually settled, Johnson feels those involved in the England 2018 campaign are in effect fraud victims and should be recompensed for what has proved a considerable waste of time and money, effort and energy. “It was a bid which united the entire country and was a source of considerable civic pride,” he said. “A region like the north-east would have benefited hugely from England hosting the World Cup and matches being staged in Newcastle and Sunderland. We’re grown ups and we could accept losing after a fair and transparent process but we’ve now learned that process was corrupt and unfair and apparently fixed.” Blatter, the suspended Fifa president, has said the agreement was for Russia to host the 2018 tournament and USA the 2022 World Cup, only for the Uefa president, Michel Platini, to back Qatar. Blatter’s spokesman, Klaus Stöhlker, told Press Association on Thursday: “Before the decision was taken, in the case of Russia and the USA there were ‘behind-the-curtain’ talks. It was not everyone in the Fifa executive committee but it was the big players that had these talks. Then Platini came in between and went for Qatar.” Asked if it was fair on Russia’s rivals that Blatter and the “big players” had agreed to choose Russia before the vote, Stöhlker replied: “That is a good question – but there is a saying that fairness is only between equals. I think the rivals [of Russia] including England are not content with this pro-Russia decision.” England’s 2018 bid team were encouraged by a highly favourable report from Fifa’s inspectors, who spent four days touring England and surveying the country’s potential World Cup infrastructure. Those involved recall them being particularly delighted by Rockliffe Hall, a luxury hotel near Darlington. Fifa’s inspectors compiled a lengthy, detailed dossier but England’s 2018 team were later taken aback to learn some key decision-makers never even read it. England’s lobbyists had long suspected Blatter personally favoured Russia as 2018 hosts and wanted the United States to stage the 2022 tournament but once it became apparent that, heavily influenced by the the French government, Platini was backing Qatar for 2022, their hopes revived. With some senior Fifa figures suggesting that, commercially, a joint Russia/Qatar triumph would represent a “doomsday scenario”, Blatter is understood to have let it be known he was considering forfeiting support for Russia in 2018. When, on the eve of the bid, assorted countries variously told David Cameron and Prince William they could count on their support, English optimism rose appreciably. Similarly, when Vladimir Putin failed to attend the vote, the consensus was that he could not countenance the humiliation of being seen to lose in public. Now it appears Putin already knew Russia had won. Whatever the precise truth, Greg Dyke, the FA chairman, shares Johnson’s sentiments. Despite conceding that the governing body was entering “uncharted” legal terrain, Dyke has said the FA will consults its lawyers. On Wednesday he told the culture, media and sport select committee that “it would be very nice to get the taxpayers’ money back”. 