 For someone who stopped lifting suitcases, got a better bag for her computer and was told by her sister she should not really be playing, Venus Williams was in extraordinarily good health yesterday. There were no signs of strained stomach muscles, troublesome wrists, painful knees or hints of self-doubt as the 2000 and 2001 champion burst into the last 16. It took only minutes for the injury-prone American to win 6-1, 6-2 against Nadia Petrova, a semi-finalist in the French Open only three weeks ago and an opponent who many people had said would trouble her. It was arguably her most encouraging performance in four months and announced her as a contender once more.  Williams set out to raise her game to a higher level and she succeeded. She hit her serve at a heavy pace, swung the forehand around with a rhythm which jerked her opponent about, and established a dominance which was only briefly challenged in the middle of the second set.  She also erased doubts about her motivation. There had been talk about her focusing on her interior-design business, and on her enjoying the life of a student, all set against an unhelpful backdrop of her father saying he could not wait for his two daughters to retire from the game.  Williams stared when she was confronted with that quote. But about her state of mind she was as convincing as she had been on court about the condition of her body. "I realise I am extremely fortunate and extremely blessed and travelling the world," she said. "It only happens to a handful."  Petrova, only 21, improving well and keen to make up for a heavy defeat the last time they met, was faced with the prospect of an even heavier slap in the face. Nine of the first 10 games disappeared before she could conceive of plan B and, when she did, it inevitably had an ingredient of desperation.  She tried to attack the Williams second serve, tried to serve better, tried to hit harder and attempted to come in a little more. She ended a run of eight losing games with a big effort, serving two aces, surviving four deuces and saving three break points. The crowd applauded generously, hoping for more, though it was never likely to do more than improve a one-sided scoreline.  At the end the crowd gave Williams a lively send-off, having given her a demonstrative welcome. They warmed to a player they knew to be vulnerable, and not only because of her French Open problems and her stuttering form.  Last year a stalker who had been following her sister Serena for many months was caught at Wimbledon, after trying to make a getaway on a bicycle and crashing it. This time there were newspaper reports that Venus had a stalker too, which she did not entirely deny.  "I don't read newspapers. I don't even look at the headlines or the pictures. I keep my mind free from nonsense and gossip and hearsay," she said firmly. But then there was a slight change of tack. "My agent called me last night about something. I was quite tired last night but I don't think I heard it all," she added, agreeing that she had not been not aware of a stalker.  It reminded one of her words in Miami in March in which she explained how she often felt out of it at parties. "You know, someone always pulls me aside and starts talking to me and, you know, a little bothering me maybe," she said. "Then Serena gets to meet everyone."  She next plays another young Russian, Vera Zvonareva, the 18-year-old who beat her at Roland Garros. It is a revenge opportunity she must be delighted with.  "I think this is a lot different," she said. "Definitely the circumstances are a lot different. Even if I had won that match I don't see where I would have been able to do very much at the French, to be honest. I just wasn't ready."  The implication was, quite clearly, that she now is.  And lest anyone doubt the motivation of this very wealthy 23-year-old, she declared: "When you have been No1 in the world it is not the greatest fun to be at No4. Now I feel I have my game back again - with all the right shots." 