 •Revealed - why the No1 seeds Martina Hingis and Pete Sampras have been knocked out of this year's event: they cannot handle the pressure. The website stressbusting.co.uk has calculated the "stress index" of the top 16 men's and women's Wimbledon seeds by comparing the career win/defeat record for each player with their records in tie-breaks, the most pressured part of a match.  Though Sampras has won 77.5% of matches during his career, he has won only 63.7% of tie-breaks, giving him a stress index of minus 13.8. This is 13th best of the top 16. Hingis is in the same position with a stress index of minus 21.3, having won 84% of her matches and 62.7% of tie-breaks. The website claims this "disproves the accepted theory that true champions are the players who excel under pressure".  Unfortunately what is also clear is that much more is needed to win a match, let alone a tournament. The leaders of the two pressure tables are Vladimir Voltchkov and Sandrine Testud, who have won two singles titles between them, rather fewer than Sampras and Hingis.  •Drama erupted outside centre court yesterday when intruders evaded the attentions of numerous security guards and concealed themselves among the geraniums, petunias and hydrangeas next to the entrance to the royal box.  Happily the incident was of more concern to the RSPCA than the police as the troublemakers were a family of ducks. They had first surfaced on a staircase within centre court but, when they were removed, mother duck and one of her ducklings scarpered, leaving two other ducklings in captivity and the escapees sheltering from a crack unit of 10 stewards.  After a stand-off lasting more than an hour the fugitives were recaptured from the flower arrangement and the family reunited, placed in boxes and carried to a pond just outside the grounds. All seem to have survived the ordeal, including the ducks.  •The sanity of those who queue overnight can be questioned, judging by the numbers who crash out on the picnic terrace clearly unable, because of lack of sleep, to rouse themselves for a full day's tennis.  However, they would have been delighted to be moved from the overnight queuing area at 7am yesterday. An hour later one of the giant oaks that shades the area crashed to the ground, through the perimeter wall and into a mobile kitchen. The impeccable timing of the organisers, more luck than judgment, ensured no one was hurt. 