 Benik Afobe has “moved on” from the disappointment of failing to break into the first team at Arsenal and is eager to make his mark against the club through whose academy he graduated when the London side venture to Bournemouth for the first time on Sunday. The Leyton-born England Under-21 international’s association with Arsenal began at the age of six when he was signed having impressed a scout while playing for a Sunday junior side, Eclipse, in Dagenham. While he never represented the senior side under Arsène Wenger, there were loan spells at six clubs before a £2m move to Wolverhampton Wanderers a year ago. Afobe’s prolific form there earned him a £10m return to the Premier League last month. The striker has enjoyed an impressive start on the south coast, his headed winner in Tuesday’s trip to Crystal Palace a third reward in successive games with the 22-year-old acknowledging the huge influence Arsenal have had on his development. “They have been massively responsible because I was there from when I was six,” he said. “At six you’re still a young boy, a baby really. They’ve played a big part in the way I play football and helped me progress as a player, so I’ve got a lot to thank them for and I respect them a lot. “Arsenal always bang on about how, technically, as a centre-forward you have to hold the ball up, have a good first touch … all that stuff. Of all the clubs I’ve been at Arsenal have banged on more than any of the others about having good technique, so that’s what I’ve taken from them. But on Sunday I’ve got a job to do for my club here and there will be no friends. “I don’t hold any grudges. I’ve already scored three goals in my last three games so I’ve got nothing to prove to Arsenal. It was their decision to sell me and I’ve moved on. It’s been years now. I’ve got great friends there, I’ve got nothing bad to say about them as a club. I would’ve liked to have got my chance but it didn’t happen. “That’s not how life works. Not everything can go your way. I believe I would’ve scored goals for them, but I’m not there any more and I don’t hold any grudges. I’m here in the Premier League scoring winners at Selhurst Park, so I’m enjoying it and I want to keep improving.” Bournemouth have excelled over recent weeks, progressing smoothly into the fifth round of the FA Cup and losing only two of their past 12 Premier League games to edge away from the bottom three and approach Arsenal’s first ever trip to Dean Court with some confidence. The belief flowing through Eddie Howe’s team has helped Afobe bridge the gap from Championship to top flight as he attempts to fill the void left by Callum Wilson’s absence with cruciate knee ligament damage. “This run is down to the boys giving me confidence before I even kicked a ball, self-belief and the manager believing in me,” added Afobe. “When you play for a manager who believes in you it gives you another 10-15%. The manager believes in me, the team believes in me. I’m just trying to improve. But when I came here I knew I was ready to make the step up. I’ve kept quiet, I haven’t said I’m going to score this or that amount of goals. I’m trying to do it quietly, I’m going to try to keep improving. If I keep doing what I do well, I’ll always give 100% for the team. “But my goalscoring is instinctive. I’ve been shooting and scoring goals since I was six and playing for Arsenal, so I don’t think you turn overnight a great goalscorer. Some people have got it. Some people haven’t. I’m not saying I’ve got it – I’m only 22 so I’m not the finished article yet – but I know how to score goals.” 