UK stock markets soared on Tuesday, helped by a slump in the pound as it fell to a new 31-year low against the dollar amid growing fears that Britain could leave the single market after Brexit. The FTSE 100 index of Britain’s leading companies – which is dominated by companies that earn revenues in dollars – surged to 7,074.34, closing at its highest level since the record finish of 7,104 in April 2015. It came tantalisingly close to beating that landmark before a last-minute spate of profit taking. However, the FTSE 250 mid-cap index closed at a new peak, as investors shrugged off the gloom that surrounded markets at the start of the year and in the aftermath of the UK’s EU referendum in June. The share gains came as the pound dropped to its worst level since June 1985, falling to $1.2721, down 0.9%. Against the euro, sterling hit a three-year low of €1.1365, down 0.8%. The latest falls in the currency followed Theresa May’s announcement on Sunday that the government would trigger the process of leaving the European Union by the end of March 2017, as well as subsequent comments suggesting it would place a priority on restricting immigration into the UK, even at the expense of leaving the single market. The pound has also been hit by the Bank of England cutting interest rates in August and suggesting further reductions could come later in the year. May told the BBC that the UK’s economy was strong and currencies “of course go up and down”. Many analysts believe the pound has further to fall. Connor Campbell, financial analyst at betting firm Spreadex, said: “It seems that it is going to be hard to provide a tourniquet for sterling’s recent wounds given the solidity of the newly announced Brexit timeline ... and the firmness with which May stated her intention to chase border control even if it means relinquishing Britain’s position in the single market.” Kathleen Brooks, research director at City Index, said: “A move down to $1.25, and even $1.20 is now a possibility ... The all-time low for the pound/dollar from March 1985 is $1.05. We don’t expect to return to these lows; back in 1985 the pound only briefly dipped to $1.05 before recovering sharply.”  But the weakness in the pound helped lift the international companies and exporters which dominate the FTSE 100, making their goods cheaper for foreign buyers and boosting their profits. Trevor Green, head of UK Equities at fund manager Aviva Investors, said the market was being driven by different factors to a year ago, when optimism over the health of the eurozone helped push shares upwards. He said: “The dynamics driving the index towards a record high are different from [2015], when we last witnessed the index go over 7,000. Then it was about falling oil prices and optimism on the eurozone recovery. This time, it materially revolves around currency ... Overseas earners benefit from the translation of these earnings back to sterling, leading to a succession of companies upgrading their earnings forecasts for currency alone.” The index of Britain’s 100 largest listed companies closed up 90.82 points or 1.3% to reach 7074.34, a revival of 28% since it hit a 2016 low of 5537 in February. At that point, investors were unnerved by signs of a global slowdown, a plunge in the oil price and worries about the effect of low interest rates on bank balance sheets. The FTSE is also 18% higher than the 5982 level it fell to in June following the Brexit vote. The more domestically focussed FTSE 250 jumped 0.87% to 18,342.07. Again the pound’s weakness helped make company valuations more attractive to both overseas investors and possible predators seeking takeovers. The index was also lifted by signs that dire warnings of recession made before the Brexit vote looked misplaced, at least for the moment. UK construction bounced back in September, according to the latest Markit/Cips survey, with its purchasing managers’ index rising to a better-than-expected 52.3 from 49.2 in August, the first increase since March. That followed news on Monday that UK manufacturing activity expanded at the fastest pace for more than two years in September, with stronger export orders on the back of the pound’s continuing weakness. Investors were also lifted by news that the International Monetary Fund, which was one of those warning of a severe downturn if the UK voted to leave the European Union, was now predicting the UK would be the fastest growing of the G7 industrialised nations this year. The IMF is forecasting UK growth of 1.8% in 2016, up 0.1 percentage points from its previous prediction in July, albeit falling to 1.1% in 2017. Markets around the globe have also been supported by a revival in commodity prices, notably oil, which has stabilised following last week’s outline of a deal by producers to tackle the supply glut by curbing output. And with low interest rates and bond yields, investors seeking a decent return on their money have been tempted into the stock market. Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: “Lower interest rates have also given the stock market a leg up, because with cash and bonds yielding next to nothing, equities are the natural alternative for anyone looking for a decent level of income. “Nor will there be any shortage of income-seekers at the moment, as millions of baby boomers are reaching retirement age, while the recent pension freedoms conveniently allow them to park their retirement funds in the stock market rather than buying an annuity.” However, analysts also pointed out that if the weakness of the pound is taken into account and is balanced against the FTSE’s performance last year when the pound was stronger, the index has actually fallen around 2% so far this year. 