Jason Solomons 
 Charming chap, James D'Arcy, who plays the love-struck Edward to Andrea Riseborough's Wallis in Madonna's patchy new film W.E. He bristles at any criticism of his director, whom he calls "M - that's what everybody calls her", and even counters accusations of her less than spectacular acting forays with her ownership of a Golden Globe. "That's more than most actors I know have ever got," he says of M's Evita triumph. He obviously hasn't met Zsa Zsa Gabor. Anyway, James, who swishes through W.E. in very fine tailoring (courtesy of Dunhill, I'm told, who've taken all the suits back), is now much changed, having been filming Cloud Atlas, an adaptation of the "unfilmable" bestseller by David Mitchell (no, the other David Mitchell). It's being co-directed by Germany's Tom Tykwer and the Wachowskis, formerly the brothers who made The Matrix. I say formerly because, James confirmed, one of them is now a woman. Larry has become Lana and wears dresses to work and, on occasion, full make-up. "Yes, he is a woman," says James. "I can't vouch for how much so, but as I never met Larry I only know Lana, who is, to me, very much a woman." Playwright and screenwriter Christopher Hampton has been spending time in Azerbaijan's capital Baku. He's been researching for his next adaptation, a screen version of the nation's most famous work of literature, Kurban Said's Ali and Nino, a star-crossed epic romance between childhood sweethearts, a Muslim boy and a Christian Georgian girl. Hampton, whose latest screenplay, for David Cronenberg's Jung and Freud smackdown A Dangerous Method, hits cinemas next month, was sent the 1937 novel by Leyla Aliyeva, a socialite and cultural ambassador, the daughter of the Azerbaijani president Ilham Aliyev. She is producing the film, along with Britain's Kris Thykier, the man behind Madonna's W.E. Hampton tells me: "It's a remarkable work of literature, rather mysterious but very romantic and resonant. I was highly sceptical about the project, but the story is the stuff of great cinema, and filming in Baku will be a very different experience. I suppose it could be dangerous, but we're working for the president's daughter so we should be well looked after." A week of awards-season frenzy begins on Sunday night in Hollywood with the Golden Globes. Then the British government's film policy review is published on Monday and will doubtless have our film folk frothing, some with glee but most with ire. On Tuesday the Bafta nominations are announced, before the London Critics' Circle parades on the red carpet at BFI Southbank on Thursday evening. Seems to me, there isn't quite a Slumdog or a King's Speech this year to grab the popular British attention, and we don't yet have the internecine drama of, say, a race boiling down to Avatar vs Hurt Locker. It's always looked like a year for The Artist to sweep all before it, but clearly someone's funding a smear campaign against the French fancy, as the inevitable negative stories have begun to emerge, starting with attacks on its "borrowings" in the original score music. Who's behind all this? I doubt it's The Help, or My Week With Marilyn, or surely not the murky spies of Tinker Tailor or the Tory power-brokers uniting behind The Iron Lady? We shall soon see… Ryan Gilbey: The star of Hitchcock is versatile, nuanced and passionate. Yet James D'Arcy is so self-deprecating, he says he once got a Hollywood audition only because they thought he was Colin Firth 