Fluid full-backs still central to the Catalan manager’s City plans, but win against West Ham proves that he also knows how to win ugly 
 This game featured much less of the Manchester City full‑backs moving inside, a ploy of Pep Guardiola’s that was first sighted when Sunderland were defeated in the season opener at the Etihad Stadium. Instead, the Catalan secured a third consecutive Premier League victory by implementing a more old‑fashioned strategy. First, Raheem Sterling slotted home after a Nolito pull-back, then Fernandinho thumped a header past Adrián from Kevin De Bruyne’s free-kick before Sterling dispatched the ball into an empty net at the death. At his unveiling in early July Guardiola had insisted that it would be “presumptuous” to think he could fashion a change in English football. Cut to that 2-1 victory against Sunderland and the sight of Bacary Sagna and Gaël Clichy becoming midfielders when City attacked suggested the City coach was being modest. Guardiola’s message had been to forget any notion of him being a revolutionary. “To come to the country which created football and believe you have to change something would be a little bit presumptuous,” he said. Yet come this match, City’s fifth outing under the Catalan, the question being asked was how Slaven Bilic, the West Ham United manager, would deal with a tactic that has become an eye‑catching part of City’s approach under Guardiola and one which is new to most managers on these shores. Bilic fielded three centre-backs and two wing-backs in order to create a five-man defence. In theory this put greater emphasis on Pablo Zabaleta and Clichy when West Ham attacked, while their coach might have instructed the wing-backs, Arthur Masuaku and Michail Antonio, to track the full-backs if they wandered inside. The problem for Bilic was his team were 1-0 down inside seven minutes and then two behind after 18, as Sterling and Fernandinho grabbed their first goals of the season, putting the Croat’s gameplan under early, intense pressure. The ploy of moving the full-backs inside was seen soon after kick-off, with mirroring strands of play: as Guardiola’s men roved along the left, so Zabaleta moved from the right channel towards the centre circle; later, when the ball was with a player in a sky-blue shirt along the opposing corridor, it was Clichy who ran inside. Of this demand from Guardiola Zabaleta, who is in a ninth season at City, said: “It’s true we see full-backs running down the wings, maybe getting to the byline and then crossing the ball before tracking back to defend. But we are having a different role this season and sometimes playing more central and being part of the buildup while quickly returning to the right position when we lose the ball. “It’s fantastic to learn a new way of playing under a manager that has been very successful at Barcelona and Bayern Munich and I hope he can do the same thing here.” At Bayern, Guardiola used the ploy most notably via David Alaba and Philipp Lahm in Bayern’s 3-1 victory against Manchester United in a Champions League quarter‑final tie in April 2014. The approach was also utilised by Armin Veh’s Hamburg, as Zé Roberto dropped in from left-back to midfield during the 2010-11 season. Guardiola claimed on Friday that once the whistle sounds on matchday all he does is “move my hands”. There were certainly copious amounts of this action from the manager here, as at times he resembled a hyperactive semaphore devotee. At one point Guardiola wildly gesticulated to Willy Caballero to stand midway inside his half as a sweeper; at another he strode from the technical area waving an imaginary yellow card when Masuaka appeared to foul De Bruyne. This was quickly put away when the referee, Andre Marriner, took out his pen and booked the No30. If the ploy of moving the full-backs inside was largely eschewed what was witnessed, particularly after the break, was City being pulled into a test of character and sheer desire to claim three points the ugly way. Opposing managers may study this game to see how their teams can strive to stymie the Guardiola blueprint. By the same token, though, he will have learned far more during these 90 minutes than in any of the other games City have played under his charge. Entering this game, the aggregate score was 12-2 to City in what had been four walks in the park for his players. By the close, Sterling had rolled in a cool finish from a difficult angle to secure all three points for the hosts. As with Manchester United and Chelsea, it means City have nine points from three matches and are flying. And they now know they can win without always having to innovate. Manchester United are their next opponents. José Mourinho is also a shrewd tactician. The meeting at Old Trafford on 10 September holds fascinating promise. 