City produce an excellent away performance to thrash West Ham and book their spot in the fourth round of the FA Cup 
 That was an excellent performance from Manchester City, and a dreadful one from West Ham. City played with verve and skill for 90 minutes, and fully deserved their margin of victory, but West Ham were dismal. They gave City time and space, and just failed to muster anything in attack. Maybe it would have been different if Feghouli hadn’t missed a sitter at 0-1, but West Ham were well beaten. This truly was a thrashing, and City become the first team to book a fourth-round place. Well done to them. We’re going to wrap this blog up now. Thanks for reading. Bye! Updated
 87 min Agüero runs clear in the inside-right channel, but he shoots for goal instead of squaring it for Sterling, who is livid at not getting the pass. He would have had a tap-in. That was greedy from Agüero! Updated
 85 min Stones shrugged off Nordtveit and planted a firm header past Adrian from 12 yards. Noble, on the line, did his best to clear the danger, but the whole ball had gone over, and the decision review system said goal. This is a trouncing. 
 82 min Agüero nearly goes through for a fifth, but Adrian is quickly out to get a vital toe on it. Corner to City. 
 81 min Is this City’s best away performance in the FA Cup since they, as a second-tier team, tonked then-Premier League Ipswich 4-1 in 2002? Berkovic and Bernabia ran the game that day, as I recall. And Shaun Goater with a couple of goals? 
 78 min Another lovely nutmeg from Payet, but he can’t quite work the room for the shot. Antonio had a couple of efforts in the first half, but West Ham haven’t really tested Caballero in this second. They just haven’t played very well tonight. 
 75 min Fabian Delph looked set to replace Yaya Touré, but then Sagna went down after taking an accidental finger in the eye from Cresswell, so City are just waiting to make the change. 
 73 min Free kick to West Ham 35 yards from goal, and Payet fires it straight out of play for a goal kick. An apt summation of West Ham’s attacking endeavours. Updated
 70 min Not much happening, to be honest. Man City know the game’s won, and West Ham just look like they want to go home. 
 69 min Tom Sullivan has a thought on brand values: “To answer JR in Illinois, I’m pretty sure that’s marketing-speak for ‘get rid of the oiks.’” Updated
 65 min A period of possession for Man City after that mild West Ham flurry. Here’s Tim Hall: “Having noted half-time’s three wise men on the BBC – Roasted Peanut, Frank and Wrighty, all dark suits looking like pallbearers, which on reflection, seems about right for West Ham just now.” 
 64 min Payet loops one high and long, but City clear, and now they can counter-attack. Sterling goes through the middle with pace and verve, but West Ham get bodies back and Nordtveit gets a decisive touch to deny a fifth goal. 
 63 min Headed clear by Stones. But West Ham recycle it and Feghouli wins another corner. This is more like it! 
 62 min Lovely nutmeg from Payet, who’s done more in two minutes that the rest of the Hammers have done all game, practically. Nordtveit crosses from the right, and Antonio almost gets on the end of it. Corner to West Ham, and this is better. Updated
 59 min Payet has effected an immediate improvement, and City are on the back foot for a moment. Here’s JR in Illinois: “Looks like the the extremely successful stadium move is continuing apace with an extended cup run. Also, probably because of all the winning, I never quite figured out what Karren Brady meant when she said that West Ham had “a real opportunity to change the brand values of the club”. Little help?” Anyone? 
 57 min City make their first change, and Nolito replaces David Silva, who’s been top-class. His weight of pass and close control is just top-notch, isn’t it? One of my favourite players. And West Ham replace Carroll and Lanzini, who have done nothing, with Noble and Payet. 
 56 min Sterling looks to have a shot at goal, but it won’t quite sit for him, and West Ham clear. But City win it back immediately. They’re under no pressure at all. 
 53 min City could win this six or seven-nil if they wanted to. West Ham just haven’t played in this second half. It’s all extremely flat, and City, with about 35 minutes left, are just playing keep-ball. 
 51 min West Ham just didn’t defend the corner. Sterling skinned Obiang, and teed up Touré. His shot was slightly mishit, but Agüero, sniffing a goal, reacted quickest and turned it past Adrian from about four yards. West Ham, I’m afraid to say, have been pathetic, and one or two fans are heading for the exits. 
 49 min Feghouli concedes a cheap corner, and West Ham have work to do defensively. Oh, that was nearly four! Stones won the header and Adrian had to be alert to stop Otamendi tapping in, and then in the second phase, Agüero clearly handballed before rifling a shot that Adrian had to turn over. Another corner. Updated
 47 min David Silva really rolled back the years in that first half – he was terrific. And Agüero produced two defence-splitting balls for goals No2 and No3. Excellent work from the pair of them. 
 This tie isn’t over yet, but West Ham need to improve significantly. Man City were much the better team in the first half. The Hammers are in need some serious oomph. 
 Jonathan Hill writes: “Much has been made of the Manchester Citeh “project” and the academy and facilities have been widely lauded. Yet, Pep decides to play Pablo Zabaleta in midfield instead of any homegrown youngster? Either the academy narrative is tosh (unlikely, given the honours the junior teams have won in recent years) or Pep has more in common with Mourinho than we thought.” 
 Drew Goldie has an opinion on that open goal miss/possible penalty shout: “Feghouli didn’t think it was a foul, which probably is an answer.” 
 A smattering of boos from the home as the players exit. City have been clearly superior, but the first penalty award was soft, and there was some suggestion that Clichy fouled Feghouli and should have gone just afterwards. Whatever the rights and wrongs, City have one foot in the fourth round: they’ve been excellent. West Ham well below-par. See you shortly for the second half. Updated
 45 min Two minutes of stoppage time. Chris Lewis asks: “Can you explain why penalties are never given against a defender who clatters a striker in the act of shooting? Clichy fouled Feghouli, and it was that foul which put Feghouli off and caused the miss. Penalty and sending off surely?” Ah, interesting. I’d have to see back on the replay. On first glance it looked as though Feghouli had just missed an open goal, but yeah, if the touch from Clichy was decisive, I guess he should have been dismissed. I need to see it again to be sure.  
 44 min Another decisive attacking move from City. Sterling ran beyond the backline, and all of a sudden they had a three on one: Sterling crossed for Silva, who was all alone in the penalty box, and he waited and waited, dummied Adrian, and slotted home. Much too easy for Man City, and this is turning into a rout. 
 42 min Just a superb move from Man City. Silva had it on the halfway line, found Agüero, and he released Sagna down the right with a lovely delayed pass. Sagna ran past Ogbonna, and his cross was a peach. Nordtveit could only divert it past Adrian under pressure from Sterling. Super goal. Updated
 38 min Better from West Ham, and they win a corner, but City do well, and Caballero claims. Touré is a dead-eye from the penalty spot, by the way: 13 - Yaya Toure has converted each of his 13 penalties for Manchester City in all competitions. Certainty. 
 36 min That really was a sitter. How did Feghouli miss? He kind of jabbed at the ball, and just got it all wrong. It should be 1-1. Updated