In a surprise victory at the weekend US box office, Tyler Perry’s Boo! A Madea Halloween toppled another A-lister as Tom Hanks and Ron Howard’s latest Dan Brown adaptation, Inferno, went up in flames. Perry’s latest movie about a tough-talking grandmother remained No 1 for a second straight week with an estimated $16.7m. That was enough to scare away the third installment of the Da Vinci Code franchise. According to studio estimates, Inferno bombed with $15m, about half of what more bullish predictions anticipated. Sony Pictures could take solace in stronger overseas business. In three weeks of international release, the Italy-set film has earned nearly $150m. The studio also stressed that the $75m budget for Inferno was half that of that spent on The Da Vinci Code (2006) or Angels & Demons (2009). “Certainly we thought of the film as for the international market. We knew that’s where the sweet spot was going to be,” said Rory Bruer, domestic distribution chief for Sony. “We got a few bad breaks, the biggest being this historical World Series.” Friday night’s game three between the Chicago Cubs and the Cleveland Indians drew 19.4 million viewers, a 12-year-record, and Saturday night’s game four was watched by 15.1 million. The unexpectedly poor performance of Inferno was yet another example of an anxious trend in the movie business: more of the same isn’t working. Poorly reviewed and coming seven years after the last Robert Langdon thriller, Inferno arrived long after the Dan Brown craze. Angels & Demons opened with $46.1m in 2009. Efforts to adapt the third book in Brown’s series, The Lost Symbol, were scuttled in favor of Brown’s fourth volume, Inferno. “Inferno joins the long list of sequels that didn’t measure up to their predecessors this year and in particular this summer when only three of the 14 sequels released outperformed their immediate predecessors at the box office,” said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore. Hanks still has the fall’s biggest hit, Clint Eastwood’s Sully. It has been an especially star-studded season, with competition from Tom Cruise in Jack Reacher: Never Go Back ($9.6m in its second week) and Ben Affleck in The Accountant ($8.5m in its third week). But Perry’s long-running character has fared better than each, at least in North America. The Halloween-themed Boo, released by Lionsgate, has made $52m in 10 days, making it Perry’s biggest hit since Madea Goes to Jail. 