Britain’s economy shrugged off the uncertainty surrounding June’s referendum vote to leave the European Union and maintain the best performance among the world’s leading economies with growth of 0.5% in the three months since the poll. The powerful showing, which defied City forecasts that gross domestic product (GDP) growth would more than halve to 0.3%, came after the dominant services sector expanded at a faster rate in the quarter to the end of September than during the three months running up to the referendum vote. But the figures were marred by a contraction in agriculture, construction and manufacturing that prompted business groups to urge the chancellor, Philip Hammond, to use the autumn statement next month to support measures that boost investment and productivity. Overall, GDP growth slowed from 0.7% in the previous quarter. Consumer confidence surveys also indicated an increasingly gloomy mood among consumers as the feelgood factor from low interest rates and inflation was replaced by concerns that the pound’s sharp decline would increase shop prices and hit UK living standards hard next year.  GfK’s consumer confidence index, which assesses respondents’ outlook for the next 12 months, decreased by two points to -3, ending a revival since June’s Brexit vote that pushed the index riseup to -1 after falling to -12. The GDP data from the Office for National Statistics is the first official verdict on how the economy has performed since Britain voted to leave the European Union. The figures rule out the prospect of a technical recession – defined by two consecutive quarters of contraction – in the second half of the year which was predicted by many economists before the referendum vote. Hammond said the figures demonstrated the resilience of the UK economy, which was “well-placed” to deal with the challenges and opportunities created by the EU referendum. The chancellor said: “We are moving into a period of negotiations with the EU and we are determined to get the very best deal for households and businesses. The economy will need to adjust to a new relationship with the EU, but we are well-placed to take advantage of opportunities ahead.” However, several City analysts warned that the post-referendum bounce would prove to be temporary. Kallum Pickering, senior UK economist at Berenberg bank, said the resilient post-referendum performance “does not say anything about the UK’s ability to perform outside of the EU”. He said: “The good quarter of growth merely reflects the momentum heading into the vote and the healthy underlying fundamentals after some three years of good growth. The data does not alter our long-term view that Brexit will lower UK trend growth, to around 1.8% from 2.2% per year, via less trade, migration and investment with its major market, the EU.” Business groups warned the chancellor that industry remained vulnerable to uncertainty after the Brexit vote and he should open his cheque book to prevent a longer-term slump in output. Mike Spicer, director of economics at the British Chambers of Commerce, said: “Although many manufacturers saw a bounce this summer, in part from the lower exchange rate, this was not enough to prevent a contraction in industrial output overall. Many have found themselves on the wrong side of currency movements – facing increased costs for imported components.” For this reason “boosting business confidence must be a key task for government in the months ahead”, he said. The 0.5% rise beat the latest forecasts from Bank of England policymakers, who were predicting at the time of the August inflation report that third quarter growth would come in at 0.1%. Threadneedle Street is likely to use the data as a reason to delay any further stimulus to the economy until next year, placing further pressure on the Treasury to support industry. The main boost to growth came from the transport, storage and communication sectors which grew at its fastest pace since the fourth quarter of 2009, rising 2.2% over the period in contrast to 0.6% in the second quarter. The ONS said higher output in the film, music and TV industries was the main driver, indicating that Britain’s creative industries sailed through the uncertainty surrounding the referendum unscathed. The expansion of the services sector helped to offset the steepest fall in construction since the third quarter of 2012, with a slide in new housebuilding dragging the entire building industry down 1.4% between July and September. Manufacturing dropped by 1% in the third quarter, while production fell 0.4% and agriculture slipped by 0.7%, prompting the TUC general secretary, Frances O’Grady, to say the government needed to do more to help. “We can’t yet say what impact Brexit will have on our economy, but these figures show there’s no room for complacency. British manufacturing is still struggling, and now faces real uncertainty following the vote to leave the EU. “The government must use next month’s autumn statement to boost Britain’s jobs and wages. This means investing in infrastructure like roads, rail and homes, and raising the national minimum wage.” Britain’s economy has been growing for 15 consecutive quarters. The relative resilience of the UK economy since the Brexit vote on 23 June has largely been attributed to a willingness among consumers to keep spending, as well as strength in the services sector. The International Monetary Fund has predicted that Britain will be the fastest growing of the G7 leading industrial countries in 2016, with growth of 1.8%. The Washington-based fund accepted that its warning of a post-Brexit-vote financial crash had proved too pessimistic. 