Research by BritainThinks has followed the thoughts of leave and remain voters in two areas of the UK since the EU referendum 
Anushka Asthana and 
Heather Stewart 
 In the run-up to the EU referendum, the Guardian hosted two focus groups in Brighton and Knowsley that shone a light on the impending vote. Sessions organised by the research organisation BritainThinks told a story of voters who were confused, distrustful of politicians and deeply concerned about immigration.  A picture emerged from discussions both in Merseyside and on the south coast of a battle in which the remain campaign’s focus on the economy was not sticking while the £350m claim of the out camp was getting through. It was clear that voters had lost faith in politicians, whose integrity appeared to fall further during the referendum campaign, with leavers arguing it was the rich and “unaffected” who were most likely to back the status quo. They were also upset about the intervention of President Obama. Remainers, on the other hand, regarded Brexiters as xenophobic. On 23 June, Britain voted to leave the European Union. In the month that followed, how did those same voters react in the aftermath of the most momentous vote in the country’s political history? Brexit – the first weekend Much like the rest of the country, the Guardian focus group voters woke up after the Brexit vote to an explosion of powerful emotions. An overwhelming sense from leavers was anger at the way they were being portrayed. “To hear what the remain camp are calling the leave voters is dreadful. They are calling us stupid, uneducated, racist. It’s disgusting. And the fact that they are calling for a further referendum is diabolical,” said one woman who voted leave in Knowsley. Another called on people to respect democracy. “I would equate it to a football match between two teams and when one team loses they wait outside for the other team’s supporters and beat them up because they won,” she said. A third woman on Merseyside said she felt low about comments from younger people that the older generation had let them down. She said her son was furious and she questioned her decision but concluded that Britain would have to navigate a “few rocky roads” but eventually would be fine. For remainers, there was sadness and confusion. “A few skilled – and almost universally posh – politicians managed to connect and lead this anti-establishment tsunami into a direction that has no hope of solving the problems they daily experience,” said one man from Brighton. One woman added: “Why would they want to take away the opportunities for their children and grandchildren to possibly work or study abroad when they are older? Why would they want their children to live in a country that is intolerant, unequal and that will now probably suffer a horrific recession whilst being an easy target to terrorists ... I’m baffled!” David Cameron had announced his resignation; Boris Johnson had already pulled out of the Tory leadership race, making Theresa May a clear favourite; Jeremy Corbyn’s leadership was destabilised by an attempted coup; and there was a spike in race hate crime. Britain had entered a tumultuous period with massive instability in Westminster leaving many people still unsure about what the 23 June vote would actually mean. For remainers in the focus groups, there was a glimmer of hope that something might still change. “I think we should all go for a re-vote and I bet you would see the decision overturned, I can’t believe how many politicians are quitting their posts,” said a man in Knowsley who voted remain. “Apparently some people think that article 50 won’t actually go ahead and we won’t leave the EU but will try and negotiate a better deal. I like this idea but wonder if we are just in denial,” added a woman in Brighton. But leavers were left angry by the outpourings of the 48%. “I’ve just read that hundreds of young people have taken to the streets of London in protest of the Brexit vote which makes a mockery of democracy but they obviously feel strongly about the decision. I feel that the country is going to be divided for a long time to come,” said a leave voter in Knowsley. They were also at odds over the issue of Johnson’s decision not to stand for the Tory leadership. One leaver from Merseyside said that despite her stance, she agreed with a Facebook post that was a scathing attack on Johnson. “He rallied everyone to leave the EU and now he doesn’t want to face the consequences of what he has done. This too makes me feel really angry – bring us to our knees then desert a sinking ship,” she said. Another said she found him “quite endearing if a little bonkers”. The voters also talked about the rise in the number of racist incidents. “I saw a YouTube blog about racism and Brexit. I am feeling quite guilty that my vote is involved with this but my intention was never racist, it was merely worry and concern towards monitoring and capping something maybe the government should have prioritised earlier,” said one woman.  A man in Brighton, who voted remain, said: “I’m noticing a lot of racist and xenophobic incidents being posted on my social media. I seriously believe the EU referendum has made some people more xenophobic and confident to challenge people of their intentions to remain in this country.”  Some remain voters involved in the focus groups were still holding on to some hope about what might happen, but there was an overwhelming feeling that Britain needed to move on from the referendum. The number of Westminster resignations had left participants unimpressed, with deep levels of distrust in politicians, and some had started to feel uncertain about the economy. “I’ve seen a few articles today about the low value of the pound. It does make me feel quite worried for the future of our economy if it doesn’t bounce back. Feeling more and more like we’ve made a really bad decision,” said one remain voter, while another said it “reeks of recession”. But there was no great sense of buyers’ remorse among leave voters, with most standing by their decision. One admitted to being worried, but said it was the right decision: “I’m surprised at the amount of scaremongering and nasty people around. A bit of fear sure does bring out a bad side in some people and we’ve really seen that. All in all … it’s shown that the public really do have a voice.” Another said they felt “surprisingly optimistic”. Although one leaver, from Brighton, admitted to feeling a “little isolated” after so many friends voted remain: “It makes me question if I did the right thing.” Young remain voters felt nervous about the divisiveness that appeared to have exploded, and about racist rhetoric. One said: “I think that there isn’t really a way you could have voted to leave without being closed minded and at least a little anti-diversity and that makes me sad for our country. “Little hidden racists have come out of the woodwork,” added another who felt “disgusted, horrified, saddened and angry”. But one leave voter echoed others by arguing it was about immigration concerns and not racism, saying it was great to have a “mixed culture society” but reasonable to be worried about numbers. There was a debate about why Britain voted to leave, from a remainer who said the working classes were “manipulated”, to others who said people were misguided if they thought leaving would solve their problems. But one leaver said the referendum had taught them that in Britain “we can fight for what we believe is right for us and we are not scared to make a change even if it does mean we’ll have to make sacrifices along the way”. Some remainers hoped there was a chance of staying in the EU, but felt it was a risky path. “This morning I saw the EU flag hanging from someone’s balcony. I liked the sentiment but fear that despite people saying we won’t actually leave we will probably have to or there will be riots from all those people who voted leave.” Another said: “I want another referendum and I want it now. Let’s get back to the EU and work with our neighbours for a better United Kingdom!”  But the more common voice from leavers was to say that things were now settling down and there was a task to get on with. One said: “Things seem to be calming down a bit, people are discussing the Brexit result as if they have accepted it and are moving on to the next stage.” 