The uncertain economic environment in the UK after the vote to leave the EU has led to Travis Perkins, the builders’ merchant and owner of the Wickes chain, revealing plans to close more than 30 branches, putting 600 jobs at risk. The potential job losses are the latest in a string of cuts to be announced by British-based companies this week. The country’s largest rail freight operator, DB Cargo UK, is to shed almost 900 jobs after a “dramatic decline” in markets such as coal, while Eurostar is cutting 80 posts following a fall in passenger numbers and ticket revenues. Travis Perkins will close 10 distribution and fabrication centres as well as the 30 branches and is reviewing the future of its plumbing and heating business, which dropped 3.9% in year-on-year sales in the third quarter of 2016. The closures will be across the company’s trade brands, which include Travis Perkins, Benchmarx, its kitchen and joinery arm, and BSS and PTS, its plumbing and heating businesses. Travis Perkins, which employs 28,000 staff in total, said it hoped to relocate some of the affected staff to other locations. John Carter, chief executive of Travis Perkins, said the company was making the cuts because “levels of future demand remain difficult to predict”. Carter blamed the uncertainty on Brexit and an increase in stamp duty on second home purchases. He said: “It [Brexit] is a big part of the uncertainty. If we were stood here now without Brexit I think it would have been easier to predict 2017. The government took the decision to change the tax status of buy-to-let and we had a massive spike in housing transactions in March [before the new regulations started]. That is still unwinding to get to a consistent level. “There would have been some uncertainty about 2017 just based on the housing transactions, but clearly it is a big uncertainty because we don’t know how Brexit is going to work.” Carter said he expects the market next year to be “soft”. He warned: “We are working on the basis that it is going to be soft, but we don’t know how soft. None of us have experienced this before and really it comes down to the consumer – disposable income and consumer confidence.” Travis Perkins warned it will take a £40m to £50m hit from the restructuring in 2016, although two-thirds of that will be the writedown of the value of its assets and not involve a cash loss. Shares in the company closed down nearly 4.5% at £14.22 as investors digested the cost of the restructuring and a warning that underlying profits for 2016 will be “slightly below” the consensus forecast in the City of £415m.  Although Travis Perkins enjoyed a 3.4% increase in group sales during the third quarter and a 2% rise in like-for-like sales, which was driven by a 9% rise in sales to consumers, the plumbing and heating business contracted sharply. Carter said the plumbing and heating business was “structurally challenged” as homeowners turn to online alternatives for repairs and installation or defer major purchases. Asked if the company would consider selling the business, he added: “If we could, I think we would. The sector is not attractive to investors, so it is our job to fix it.” Travis Perkins is halfway through a five-year overhaul of the group, in which it is shutting unprofitable stores and expanding in better-performing areas. It is revamping its Wickes stores and said it has refitted 50 shops. 