Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
15:38
 Philip Hammond says China and the UK are enjoying a "golden era" and are taking their relationship to a new level pic.twitter.com/w7rSur3NuJ That’s all from me for today. I have to get to a school parents’ “evening” - which is late afternoon. Thanks for the comments. 
15:23
 This is from the Sun’s Harry Cole. No10 source: Trump "affirmed Special Relationship" Wants to "strengthen bilateral trade and investment." Be "honoured" to invite her to DC. 
15:19
 This is from the Evening Standard’s Joe Murphy. I gather President-elect invited Mrs May to visit as soon as possible - and sd it would be a great honour to welcome her to Washington Updated
15:15
 Theresa May has spoken to Donald Trump. This is from ITV’s Chris Ship. Prime Minister had her conversation with President elect @realDonaldTrump at 1:45pm UK time this afternoon Updated
15:01
 It is worth noting that of the three lessons that Ed Miliband thinks progressives need to learn from Donald Trump (see 2.33pm), two are ones that Jeremy Corbyn has already embraced. Corbyn’s policy agenda is ambitious, not incremental, and he can credibly pose as an outsider. But he is not particularly comfortable championing nationalism or patriotism.  
14:33
 Ed Miliband, the former Labour leader, was on the World at One talking about Donald Trump. He expressed horror at Trump’s politics but, like Jeremy Corbyn yesterday, and Emily Thornberry this morning, he accepted that Trump won support because people were rightly fed up with the economic status quo. Miliband said that he thought he had a “good analysis” of this problem when he was leader of the Labour party but that his solutions were obviously “not sufficiently convincing” (because he lost the general election). However since then Miliband appears to have given the subject more thought because in his interview he offered some fresh thinking on how political parties could respond to these challenges. It was one of the most interesting interventions I’ve heard from any British politician since Trump’s election. Here are the key points. I think there are deep lessons [from Brexit and Trump]. What are the lessons? First of all the economic lessons, because whatever you say about Trump and Brexit, they offer big solutions. I think they are false solutions, and we should not invent false gods of our own. But our solutions are too incremental and not big enough for the diagnosis of inequality and the problems that we see. Secondly, being political insiders is a massive problem. Trump was the consumate outsider and I do think in a sense that got him permission to be heard. And I think we have to think very hard about how we don’t defend the existing, broken politics that people perceive, but actually want to change it. Then, thirdly, this issue of nationhood and patriotism. And the truth is that Trump has invented a xenophobic, anti-immigrant, nasty view of nationhood, but we don’t yet have a convincing one of our own. Simply defending globalisation, openness on its own, without fairness, has been proved to be deeply insufficient.  We should certainly be saying neoliberalism has failed ... The current economic system does not work. It has accrued the gains to the top 1% and people have got squeezed and left out. Having seen the referendum we have got, if at all possible, to see some change in relation to free movement. He said that he still believed in openness, and the advantages of the single market, but that this needed to be combined with fairness too. The idea that we have shared values with a racist, misogynistic self-confessed groper beggars belief. I think we should be deeply worried about the implications for many of the things that we care about: tackling climate change, he says it’s invented by the Chinese and it’s a hoax; dealing with problems in the Middle East, he says he’s going to recognise Jerusalem almost immediately [as the capital of Israel] with all kinds of implications that has for the Middle East peace process; his attitude to Russia.  And then this fantasy about trade. This guy is anti trade; he’s an odd combination of protectionism plus the old trickle-down tax cut formula that has got us into a lot of this mess in the first place. Updated
13:45
13:28
 Libby Brooks Nicola Sturgeon has warned that legitimate concerns about economic alienation must never be allowed to give a veneer of respect to racism, misogyny and intolerance, in a strongly worded response to the election of Donald Trump. Addressing the Holyrood chamber at FMQs, Sturgeon went further than her initial statement on Trump’s shock victory yesterday – in which she urged the president elect to prove that he can act for all US citizens regardless of race or background – declaring: “I’m not prepared to be a politician that maintains a diplomatic silence in the face of racism, misogyny or hatred of any kind.” Describing some of the views expressed by Trump during his campaign as “deeply abhorrent”, she said that there was more of an obligation than ever “for people of progressive opinion the world over to stand up and be counted”. She added:  There is no doubt whatsoever that many people feel economically alienated, but we must never allow those legitimate concerns to give a veneer of respectability to racism, misogyny and intolerance. Responding to a series of questions from Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale, who herself travelled to the United States last week to campaign for Hillary Clinton, she said that the Democratic candidate’s defeat ‘tells us we are not as far down road to gender equality as we hoped we were’. Dugdale warned that Donald Trump’s behaviour towards women sent “a dangerous signal across the world”. But Sturgeon also insisted that, whilst she regretted the result, she respected the decision of the American people and wanted to engage “positively and constructively” with the next US administration. Sturgeon has previously stripped Trump of his honorary role as a Scottish business ambassador last year, after his attack on Mexicans and Muslims, describing his rhetoric as “obnoxious and offensive”.  
13:23
 It has been a bumper autumn for political publishing. I am still ploughing through the EU referendum books, but here are three memoirs that have landed on my desk in recent weeks that are worth reading. Speaking Out by Ed Balls: This is Ed Balls’ memoir of his time in politics. It is not an account of everything he did, and anyone hoping for an insider account of the Blair/Brown rivalry will be disappointed. Instead it is structured thematically and all the chapters focus on lessons learnt from his time as an adviser and a minister. Occasionally the anecdotes are a bit cheesy, but the book is exceptionally readable and anyone interested in learning about the craft of politics will find it riveting. Surprisingly, with his strong plea for a politics combining social justice with faith in the markets, Balls also emerges from the book sounding like the very last survivor of New Labour. Sample extracts: One of the important lessons I’ve learnt in politics over two decades is that it’s not only common for people to hold two seemingly contradictory opinions at the same time, but it also makes a good deal of sense. So when I think of the conversations I’ve had with voters in recent years, I recall people ranting about the bankers and what they had done to the economy and how angry they were about it. But when asked, the same people would agree that banks are important for our economy and just want them to work better in the future, not to be permanently weakened. They know they matter for their savings and mortgages, and for small-business lending, and more widely for jobs and wealth creation in the economy. From before 1997, it was my job to organise the annual Christmas party for Gordon [Brown] and his inner circle of political advisers in a Westminster restaurant or later in the Downing Street flat, sometimes the only time in the whole year where he’d stop and thank all of us collectively for the punishing and occasionally painful hours we put in. As well as dinner and secret santa, and the handing out of presents from Gordon and Sarah, and from Sue Nye - usually lurid but fashionable ties - there were also certain customs that became established over the years, most sacred of all the singing of ‘Jerusalem’ (twice) complete with the elaborate acting-out of the lyrics - shooting arrows, wielding spears, and so on. If that sounds awful, it at least served as the best possible induction into the team for relative newcomers. Hinterland by Chris Mullin: Mullin has already written three superb volumes of diaries covering his life as a Labour minister and an MP, and this is an autobiography that fills in the gaps, mostly focusing on his career as a writer and campaigner before he entered parliament. Andy Beckett was probably right in his Guardian review when he said this was too incidental to Mullin’s other writing to be a classic political memoir, but Mullin is such a good observer that he could make even a dull life seem interesting, and his has been anything but. I enjoyed it very much. Sample extract: What have I learnt in my (almost) seventy years on this planet? That life is short and one should make the most of it (although I expect most people my age have reached the same conclusion). That it is stupid to waste time on feuds and vendettas. That happiness comes from doing stuff, not buying stuff, and that the greatest happiness comes from helping others. That in any walk of life it is better to go while people are asking ‘Why?’ rather than ‘When?’ That the art of good government (and the key to success in many other professions) is an ability to compromise, though not necessarily at the lowest common denominator. That no religion, ideology or political party has a monopoly of wisdom. That anyone who claims to have discovered a perfect formula for human happiness is deluded. That although there are admirable people in all walks of life, put not thy faith in heroes; they often have feet of clay. That one should never overlook the possibility, however remote, that one is mistaken; or that one’s critics - or political opponents - are right. That, as I have learnt from the experience of my wife and her family in Vietnam, state control of the means of production, distribution and exchange does not result in greater happiness. And neither does rule by corporations. In short, big is not necessarily beautiful. Our best bet is the regulated market. That taxation, fairly raised and efficiently used, is the subscription we pay to live in civilisation. That an economy built on shopping does not have long to live. That the human race must adapt to survive: if human beings continue to use the resources of the planet as if there is no tomorrow, then there will be no tomorrow. That the great strength of capitalism is its ability to adapt to changed circumstances: its greatest (and potentially fatal) weakness is its voracious appetite for resources. One way or another the future is green ... or black. Politics: Between the Extremes by Nick Clegg: This is in part a book about Clegg’s time as the Lib Dem deputy prime minister in the coalition, but it does not set out to be a full account of that government and Clegg’s main aim is to defend liberalism and explain how the politics of reason can survive and flourish in the age of Brexit/Trump-style populism. It would be wrong to pretend he has all the answers, but his book is well-written, clear-headed, refreshingly free of self-pity and upbeat. In fact, very upbeat. Clegg suggests he has not given up hope of the Lib Dems returning to power in a national government - or even of Brexit being reversed. Sample extract: If that were to happen [Brexit leading to economic turmoil] the political consequences would be brutal. The millions of British voters who were lured by Boris Johnson, Michael Gove and others to vote for a sunny Brexit future will be enraged that their personal economic well-being has been damaged, and will demand different leadership in Westminster and possibly even a rethink of the decision to quit the EU in the first place ... For a start, there should be an early general election, once Theresa May has published a full, detailed plan for the Brexit negotiations, so that voters are given an opportunity to express their approval, or otherwise, of what life outside the EU may actually look like. If the British people decide that they do not wish to grant the Conservative party a majority in that election, it will be up to other parties to try to form a government - possibly a government of national unity - whose sole purpose will be to steer the country through this unprecedented period of constitutional and economic turmoil by striking a better deal for Britain with the EU. Updated
12:47
 Nigel Farage has claimed to be “the catalyst” for the rise of Donald Trump, referred to Barack Obama as a “creature”, and joked about Trump’s alleged sexual assaults on women, my colleague Peter Walker reports. 
12:43
 Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister, has launched a very strong attack on Donald Trump in the Scottish parliament this afternoon. My colleague Libby Brooks will be filing more on this soon, but this is what she has tweeted. On US election, Sturgeon says that Clinton's defeat 'tells us we are not as far down road to gender equality as we hoped we were' #FMQs Sturgeon says, since Trump victory, there is more of an obligation on her generation than ever to stand up for progressive values #FMQs Sturgeon on Trump: I never want to be the kind of politician who maintains a diplomatic silence in face of racism & misogyny #FMQs 