A fine of £5m represents loose change for Merlin Entertainments. It is equivalent to about a week’s profit, which is one reason why there is not a clamour in the City for senior resignations over the Alton Towers rollercoaster crash that injured 16 people, including two women who suffered leg amputations. But the two men at the top at Merlin – the chair, Sir John Sunderland, and the chief executive, Nick Varney – should consider the remarks of the judge at Stafford crown court and ask themselves whether they can continue in their posts with credibility. The answer is surely no. Merlin’s safety systems were deemed to be “woefully inadequate” and a “shambles”. Michael Chambers QC went on: “This was a needless and avoidable accident in which those injured were fortunate not to have been killed or bled to death.” Engineers at the park were “doing their best in a flawed system” and the lack of proper safety systems was “a serious breach of a high duty of care, which put thousands at risk of death or serious injury over a long period of time, and which caused devastating injuries to a significant number of people”. The contrast with Merlin’s early attempt to blame “human error” could hardly have been more stark. The judge explicitly rejected that suggestion and said: “The underlying fault was an absence of a structured and considered [safety] system.” The only small consolation for Merlin was that the sentencing remarks did not include a reference to the company’s controversial bonus policy for engineers, which used low levels of “downtime” on rides as one measure of success. In all other respects, however, the verdict was damning. Varney, issuing yet another apology outside the court, declined to say whether he would resign. He should make up his mind quickly – say, before Thursday’s trading update. As for Sunderland, who stayed away from the cameras, the case for his resignation is probably stronger because he has chaired Merlin’s health, safety and security committee since 2010. “We will never ... become complacent in this area,” he told shareholders in this year’s annual report. Come on, Sir John, a court has said Merlin’s version of vigilance at Alton Towers was a shambles. It’s time to go. Remember when Royal Bank of Scotland said the name Williams & Glyn would be seen again “soon” on UK high streets? That boast was made three years ago and the question now is whether Williams & Glyn will ever appear. The 300 branches must be sold by the end of next year on the orders of the European commission to satisfy the terms of RBS’s bailout in 2008. That implies a signed agreement to sell by the end of this year, but the RBS chief executive, Ross McEwan, does not sound even remotely confident. He warned on Tuesday that RBS is sailing into “uncharted territory”. Well, yes, it’s hard to know what failure to obey the commission would mean in practice. McEwan talked vaguely of “alternative options”. A messy compromise could probably be reached, but the £1.5bn spent on trying to separate Williams & Glyn is starting to look suspiciously like dead money. Terrific news. The government wants to spread wealth across the nation and address the “visibly uneven” makeup of the British economy. If Greg Clark, the business, energy and industrial strategy secretary, is serious in this ambition, he should lobby his boss, the prime minister, to scrap HS2. The proposed north-south high-speed railway line would only entrench London’s economic dominance by bringing more commuters more quickly to the capital. If the country must have a high-speed railway, the one to build is HS3, which would link Leeds and Manchester and relieve some pressure on the M62. Or, if there is an HS2-style £50bn up for grabs, upgrade the roads to Cornwall or provide fast fibre broadband to all corners of the kingdom. If HS2 is judged to be the priority, regard the government’s localism agenda as so much tosh. 