 Nationality: Dutch. Age: 26. Lives: Monte Carlo, Mon. Height: 6ft 3in. Weight: 13st 3lb. Turned pro: 1994. Tournaments won: 7 (0 grand slams). Wimbledons: 8 since 1995. Best performance: quarter-finals 2002. Career prize money: £2,544,100. World ranking: 13 (highest 11) On court In a nutshell Schalken is not the sort of bloke to draw much attention -he's played eight Wimbledons with barely a murmur - but he did nearly cause the biggest upset last year by pushing Lleyton Hewitt to five sets in the quarter-finals. Grass or pass The flying Dutchman is class on grass. In three tournaments on it last year he won one and lost to Hewitt in the other two. Distinguishing feature More bandages than a mummy in casualty. Schalken rivals even the perennially patched-up Todd Martin for acreage of strapping. Hot shot A glorious serve which can confound opponents by reaching the most awkward places in the service box with monotonous regularity. Pressure point Schalken has learned the error of his once expressive ways. "I'm very emotional inside but I'm not going to show it any more because I lost so many matches with it. If you get angry, you don't see what you have to do to win." Outside court Hero or zero The Dutch No1 for the last three years. After his rise up the rankings many people in Holland can even spell his name. Happy clappies His coach Henk van Hulst is normally there, with his son Willem Jan van Hulst. Look out for Schalken's parents, who live so close to the national border that their house is in Holland and their garden in Belgium. Don't mention The first few years of his career, characterised by tantrums, bad form and four consecutive first-round defeats at Wimbledon. "I'm like wine, I get better with age," he suggests. British claim A big fan of mediocre British rock, he lists Dire Straits as his favourite band ever. Maybe he should stay in Holland. Luvvy rating Given he usually pushes everyone he plays to five long sets they probably shudder when they see him unpacking his racket bag. Not Hewitt. "I get along really well with Sjeng," he says, possibly because he always beats him. 5/10.  The winning formula Booming service + temperament x mobile on grass = Dutch master 