There is a tendency to overendow political events with economic significance. However, the 2016 US presidential election could deliver a tectonic shift in international economic relations. For the most part, the candidates’ platforms are standard, partisan fare. Hillary Clinton argues for investment in education and infrastructure, and a higher minimum wage. Donald Trump, too, advocates infrastructure spending along with tax cuts and the repeal of Barack Obama’s healthcare law. However, one issue simultaneously distinguishes the main contenders from previous nominees while separating one from the other. Since at least 1945, it has been a near article of faith in the west that free trade is an engine of growth. No candidate for either main US party has sought to roll back trade liberalisation. Until now. Previously in favour of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a draft of which she once described as “the gold standard in trade agreements”, Hillary Clinton now opposes it. Her reason is that it provides insufficient protection to American workers whose jobs and living standards it might harm. Donald Trump is more strident still, and quite distinctly different from any candidate since 1928. Then, Herbert Hoover won the White House promising farmers that he would raise agricultural tariffs to protect them. In 1930, Congress passed the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, which increased levies on a range of goods, not just farm products. The consequent retaliation of other nations intensified the Depression-era slump in world trade. On his visits to Pittsburgh, once the crucible of US steel production, Trump told audiences that the industry’s demise was down to bad trade deals negotiated by incompetent bureaucrats. He promised to conclude good, tough deals and bring back steel. While the likely content of a Trump trade policy is unclear, he has threatened tariffs of 45% on China and 35% on Mexico. He says withdrawing the US from the World Trade Organisation is an option and that he will break or renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. The dogs on the street seem to know that Clinton’s position is an electoral convenience. Pushed by Bernie Sanders, she threw TPP overboard in the primaries but will throw it a lifebelt in office, the argument runs. Rhetorically at least, Trump seems set on holing the world trading system below the waterline. If he expects other countries meekly to accept tariff hikes, he will be sorely disappointed. This antipathy to free trade baffles conventionally schooled policymakers who believe, correctly, that it makes us better off on average. While most people win, however, some lose and lose badly. Economists David Autor, David Dorn and Gordon Hanson have shown that in parts of the US exposed to competition from China, unemployment has risen, pay has fallen and the number claiming benefits has increased. The winners’ gains are spread thinly and widely. The losers’ losses tend to be deep and are often concentrated in specific areas, around cities such as Pittsburgh. Although the winners could compensate the losers leaving everyone better off, neither in the US nor elsewhere have we found a way to do that. Trade adjustment assistance – payments to US workers affected by import competition – has not offset the effects of job losses. Electoral college maths makes states such as Ohio and Pennsylvania crucial to the outcome of the race. They more than most have lost jobs to import competition. In this context, railing against trade makes sense. Continuing that in office would leave the US, and others, worse off. Even if Clinton wins and, once in office, tacks towards a freer trade position, this issue will not go away. More Americans believe trade lowers wages and costs jobs than the opposite. This is not just an American phenomenon. In Germany, fewer than two-fifths of people support an EU-US free trade agreement. Among the explanations for the UK’s vote to leave the EU is that the places that voted most for Brexit were those that had lost most in trade with China. Free trade has been a source of economic progress. But winning that case in the public square will no longer be achieved though facts, figures and smart debating points. People need to be convinced, through governments’ actions, that trade agreements will be properly enforced and that when jobs are threatened there is genuine compensation for the losers. Fail to do that and we will undermine one of the most effective means of improving living standards. Stephen Boyle is chief economist at NatWest 