The race to grab the world’s top brains from the ashes of the second world war is the subject of this new Stephen Poliakoff seven-parter. Having captured a German jet-engine expert, it is the job of Callum Ferguson (Jim Sturgess, for some reason impersonating Roger Moore) and his colleague Mr Ringwood (Alfie Allen) to try to win him round to the British cause before someone else nabs him. An entertaining and rather eerie piece, with complex moral questions sure to emerge. John Robinson Cutting Edge looks at the brutality erupting in some of Britain’s prisons, as revealed via videos filmed on smuggled mobile phones and uploaded to the internet. Made over 12 months, it’s a snapshot of dangerous levels of drug use and shocking violence within the system, at a time when the Prison Governors Association is calling for the government to set up an inquiry into the state of correctional facilities. Ben Arnold We are more overwhelmed with images of our fellow humans than any previous generation. The fact that these pictures are so often idealised has caused widespread anxiety, so how does it feel for people more worried about perceptions of their appearance than most? Rankin and Alison Lapper meet four subjects who hate having their pictures taken for various reasons, to see if the photograph can be a liberation rather than a cage. Andrew Mueller A second series for the rapid-fire nocturnal showcase of experimental shorts, now hosted by Jordan Stephens of Rizzle Kicks. While providing a much-needed platform for up-and-coming film-making talent, this opening instalment also features some recognisable TV faces including Gemma Chan (Humans), Nathan Stewart-Jarrett (Misfits/Utopia) and James Norton (everything), plus a vocal cameo from Shia LaBeouf. Graeme Virtue If you haven’t ventured into the world of CBBC or caught the daddy of the children’s TV manor for years, it’s time to tune in, because Tim Peake is in the house. The astronaut is in the capable hands of the just-bouncy-enough presenting team of Barney, Lindsey and Radzi, who give their guests a healthy dose of Blue Peter gravitas. There’ll also be music from the cast of Wind In The Willows and an update on the Children In Need Try-Athlon challenge. Hannah Verdier “It felt like being in a washing machine,” says Kristoffer Carlsson of being swept down a mountain in an avalanche, a prelude to being buried in snow that bound him like concrete. The skier’s headcam-captured footage is one of the highlights in a new series that uses new camera technology to offer unfamiliar perspectives on natural phenomena. Presenter Dr Helen Czerski adds scientific gravitas as we learn why snow, confusingly, behaves like a “high-temperature material”. Jonathan Wright This comedy about a Don Cheadle-led team of sassy management consultants sees them continue to take as much boodle as they can extract from awful clients. In the first of a double bill, they take on a young entrepreneur steeped in hippy practices such as “holacracy” – a supposed “flat management” structure involving confused janitors at high-level meetings – while the second sees Jeannie get romantic with a client. David Stubbs Road to Perdition (Sam Mendes, 2002) 1.55am, Movie Mix Tom Hanks stars as chief enforcer of Paul Newman’s mob in Chicago. When his own family becomes the target, he has to turn against his boss. Among the power-playing, Jude Law’s photographer-cum-killer stands out, but it’s Conrad L Hall’s richly sombre photography and Thomas Newman’s grand score that give this gangster flick a near-tragic gravitas. Paul Howlett PGA Tour Golf: The OHL Classic Day one of the tournament that was won by Graeme McDowell in 2015. 6pm, Sky Sports 4 Football: England Under-21s v Italy Under-21s Aidy Boothroyd’s young lions are unbeaten in 14 games. Can they restore English footballing credibility? 7.30pm, BT Sport 1 Test Cricket: India v England The third day from Rajkot. 3.30am, Sky Sports 2 