Cricket World Cup: Guardian writers recall three horror shows to rival the little lamented Caribbean bore-fest. Cricket World Cup: The last rites plumbed new depths of undignified chaos but the right team won, says Mike Selvey Cricket World Cup: Gideon Haigh ICC chief Malcolm Speed has conceded the 2007 World Cup will be remembered for Bob Woolmer's death and the final's chaotic finish. After winning the final, Ricky Ponting said there was no reason why Australia couldn't win the World Cup again in 2011. Adam Gilchrist's magnificent 149 lit up a farcical final that saw Australia seal a 53-run win in almost total darkness. People talk a lot about the power of sport. It's a glib sentiment, more often than not. In Britain we like to talk about the power surges caused by half-time tea brewing, about empty streets and deserted shops. This game today is stopping a war. Over-by-over report: It's the dream final in Barbados. Follow it with Andy Bull from 2pm. The tournament's best two sides face off in the final, and the rapier-like Sri Lanka could damage the Australian broadsword. To tilda under Selvey Cricket: In marked contrast to his predecessor, Sri Lankan skipper has still inspired his team to reach tomorrow's World Cup final. Punting Australia offers slim rewards, so look to individual performances such as Michael Clarke or Lasith Malinga, writes Dan Roebuck. Cricket World Cup semi-final: Australia's bowlers were in devastating form as they swept aside South Africa to set-up a date with Sri Lanka in the final . Australia's reward for their unprecedented excellence is unmitigated apathy. As they mangled South Africa in the World Cup semi-final in St Lucia, the overriding mood was not one of satisfaction at watching one of history's great sides reaching their absolute peak but weariness at watching those bloody Aussies romp to victory again. Even their own fans are bored of it. Over-by-over report: Can the rampant Aussies be stopped? Find out with Rob Smyth NOW. First Group Stage Cricket World Cup: Follow the second-placed play-off with Sean Ingle from 3pm. Cricket: West Indies' failure at the World Cup prompts coach to resign. Australia could be risking everything by playing sensitive all-rounder Shane Watson in their semi-final with South Africa, suggests David Hopps. Cricket World Cup: Deposed England coach Duncan Fletcher is adamant he still has a lot left to give the game. Cricket World Cup: Michael Vaughan's innings against the West Indies was a joy to watch but should still be his last in this format, says Mike Selvey. Cricket World Cup: England v West Indies:  Kevin Pietersen's century helped England achieve a victory against the hosts with a ball to spare. Cricket World Cup: Matthew Hayden continued his exceptional World Cup with a century as Australia demolished New Zealand.  