 Although the Australian Open belatedly took to opening up its night session with a women's match, it still feels like something of an afterthought. More twilight than night. And nothing compared to the glitzy showbiz of New York. The Melbourne skyline is impressive but Manhattan it ain't. That said, everybody was looking forward to the second-round game between Maria Sharapova and the comeback mum, Lindsay Davenport. From maternity to here, ran the headlines, and the roar that greeted Big Linds had warmth that Sharapova's entrance into the Rod Laver Arena could not match. It is not that Sharapova is unliked, simply that the pictures of Davenport with her son, Jagger, born last June, had struck the usual chord. Privately the Californian, three times a slam winner, including the Australian Open title in 2000, had intimated she would not play again once she had begun a family, but she returned to the WTA circuit late last year and arrived in Melbourne having won 19 of her 20 matches and three titles, the last being in Auckland this month. Even so, she knew it was going to be tough. Sharapova, crushed in last year's final by Serena Williams, had an injury-plagued season thereafter, slipping down to No5 in the world, and it was not until the women's end-of-season championships in Madrid, where she lost the final to Justine Henin, the world No1, that the old Sharapova re-emerged and began to look and sound something like her old self. "It will be interesting," said Davenport. But it wasn't. Well, not very. After her first-round victory Davenport had become the biggest prize-money earner ever in the women's game, surpassing Steffi Graf who won the small matter of 22 grand slam singles titles. Which just goes to show that some people are born lucky, and others are lucky to be born at the right time. A chill wind blew through the stadium as the match began with Yuri Sharapov, Maria's father and coach, looking like Sir Ranulph Fiennes in his hoodie and dark glasses. If his daughter had determined to be an explorer rather than a tennis player, he would have followed her every footfall. Dad is at every practice session and every match, and if the relationship borders on the obsessive then Sharapova is generally tolerant. She, above all, knows the risks he took when he left Russia behind to bring her to the US. With Davenport's post-maternity ranking having dropped outside the top 50, all the seeds knew before the draw that the big risk was to get her early. "I prepared for this match as if it were the final," said Sharapova afterwards. That much was clear from the opening salvoes, with the US-based Russian crushing anything short or wayward from Davenport with a fearsome intensity. The first set was done in 26 minutes, and although the American summoned up a little more resistance thereafter, it was always a lost cause. Big Linds she always has been, although these days most of the young women coming into the game are 6ft and more. Sharapova had beaten her in four of their previous five meetings, and Davenport was never going to buck the stats on this occasion. A pity. It had been a good storyline. "I now know how far I have to go, but I think I can get back into the top 10 by the end of the year," said Davenport, who will be 32 in June. She is old enough and wise enough to skip the French, never her favourite slam, so Wimbledon beckons. And she has already rented the house, the nanny being de rigueur. 