 Former champions Lindsay Davenport, Justine Henin-Hardenne and Serena Williams all moved through to the third round at Melbourne Park. Top seed Davenport had to overcome a brave challenge from Karolina Sprem before emerging with a 7-6 (7-4), 6-3 win in just under 90 minutes. The American took the upper hand early in the match when she broke Sprem's second service game but the Croatian hit back, breaking Davenport's next service game with ease. Both players then held their service games comfortably as the first set came down to a tie-breaker, when experience helped Davenport ease ahead. Sprem continued to battle in the second set but Davenport got a service break in the sixth game and victory followed shortly after. "It was a really tough match," said Davenport. "I knew she had definitely the ability to play really well and be dangerous, and that was the best that she's played against me. "I think it was great for me, I think that I was able to come through not playing perfect tennis but I still thought I did some things well. "I thought she played really well and didn't give me tons of opportunities. She served well and would take advantage when I didn't hit a good shot. And I think everything about the match was a positive for me." Eighth seed Henin-Hardenne, meanwhile, was also forced to work hard for her 7-6 (7-2), 6-1 defeat of Hana Sromova. Williams, who triumphed here in 2003 and 2005, kept her quest for a third Australian Open crown alive with a 6-3, 6-1 demolition of Camille Pin. Former Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova eased past Ashley Harkleroad 6-1, 7-5. Olga Savchuk emerged as an unlikely victor from her clash with Jelena Jankovic, the Ukrainian in superb form as she took down her opponent 6-3, 6-4, while Russian Elena Vesnina dispatched Julia Schruff 6-0, 7-5. It was a tough day at the office for Mara Santangelo, the Italian pushed to three sets by Katarina Srebotnik before coming through 7-6 (7-5), 5-7, 6-3, and Jelena Kostanic made light work of Zuzana Ondraskova, winning 6-2, 6-1.  Daniela Hantuchova was another to keep her time on court to a minimum, the Slovakian taking it to Akgul Amanmuradova 6-4, 6-1, but for Svetlana Kuznetsova it was a tougher challenge; the 14th seed finally overcoming Arantxa Parra Santonja 6-2, 6-7 (3-7), 6-2.  Italian Maria Elena Camerin fought her way back from a set down to defeat Ekaterina Bychkova 4-6, 7-6 (9-7), 6-2, and Russia's Maria Kirilenko rallied through an initial onslaught from compatriot Galina Voskoboeva to win 7-6 (7-1), 6-4 and book a third-round clash with Davenport.  Another Russian to ease through to the third round was Nadia Petrova, the tournament's sixth seed putting down the challenge of German Martina Muller 6-4, 6-1, while Virginie Razzano beat Conchita Martinez Granados 7-6 (7-3), 6-3. American veteran Laura Granville claimed some revenge for countrywoman Venus Williams, beating her first-round conqueror Tszvetana Pironkova 7-5, 6-2. 