Ireland bowled Zimbabwe out for 326 as they were on the verge of completing the World Cup’s greatest ever run chase and won by five runs  
 A massive, massive win for Ireland, who could well qualify for the quarter-finals, and a massive, massive defeat for Zimbabwe, for whom qualification is no longer possible. That was a really fine match, with lots of excellent batting, a bit of good bowling, and sporadically good fielding. Ireland benefited from a few dropped catches, Zimbabwe from a few misfields; both sides had a centurion and a nearly-centurion and Ireland, in the shape of Alex Cusack, the day’s best bowler. Anyway, it’s been a blast, but I’m off. Bye! Updated
 The decision that led to Sean Williams’ dismissal still seems crucial, even if Mupariwa came in and promptly flayed the ball around to bring Zimbabwe to the very verge of victory. Ed Joyce is named man of the match. We know we have to bowl really well and field really well to keep teams down to a reasonable target. The chase was really hard to defend. Alex Cusack’s got a cold heart. No, a cool head. With two wickets left the batting team have it in the bag but he’s a top man. Updated
 49.2 overs: Zimbabwe 325-8 (Mupariwa 18, Chatara 1) Chatara also gets an edge but this one’s safe enough and he runs a single. Zimbabwe need six from four balls. 
 49 overs: Zimbabwe 325-8 (Chakabva 17, Mupariwa 18) Best go ball by ball here. Cusack will bowl the final over. Mupariwa had an ODI average of eight before today. Amazing. Updated
 49th over: Zimbabwe 325-8 (Chakabva 17, Mupariwa 18) O’Brien bowls, and Mupariwa gets off the mark with a reverse paddle for two before smashing the next ball, sent down too wide, through the covers for four, and the one after that for another! Incredible scenes that become even more remarkable when he sweeps the next high over the square leg boundary for six, before they run two off the last! 19 from the over, and Zimbabwe now need seven from the final over to win! What a cameo from Mupariwa! 
 48th over: Zimbabwe 306-8 (Chakabva 15, Mupariwa 0) Williams was back in the dressing-room before the TV umpire had made his decision, which is very sporting of him but he was not at that point out. This is going to be the big discussion point after the game. Had the decision gone the other way Zimbabwe would have had six more runs on their total and an in-form batsman in the middle, but he didn’t really put any pressure on it. That was a close call. A really close call. And it could well have been decisive. Mooney ends his over with a great yorker to the new batsman, and Zimbabwe need 26 from two overs. 
 47th over: Zimbabwe 301-7 (Chakabva 15, Panyangara 1) O’Brien tries to strt his over with a yorker but pitches it a little short and Chakabva thwacks it through midwicket for four! A single brings Williams back on striker, whereupon O’Brien bowls a better yorker that comes off the batsman’s toe. He sets off on a single, is sent back and O’Brien has a chance to run him out but misses! Two from the next - excellent running here, with Chakabva looking particularly whippet-heeled - and then the wicket! Zimbabwe need 32 from three overs. 
 Williams aims for another six but is caught on the rope! But was he caught on the rope or an inch in front of it? We need some replays to help us find out! 
 46th over: Zimbabwe 293-6 (Williams 94, Chakabva 10) Cusack, the only bowler in the game who hasn’t conceded five or more runs an over (so far), returns for his penultimate over and it all goes pretty well until the fifth delivery, which comes off Chakabva’s thigh pad. Had the bowler just stooped to pick up the ball rather than launch an optimistic appeal that would have been the end of it. Instead he gets distracted, the batsmen try a single, another fielder arrives and tries to kick the ball into the stumps, misses badly and Zimbabwe run another two! Zimbabe need 39 from four overs at 9.75 an over. 
 45th over: Zimbabwe 283-6 (Williams 88, Chakabva 9) McBrine’s first three deliveries go for singles but then the fourth is slog-swept over square leg by Williams for a phenomenal six. Zimbabwe need 49 runs from five overs. 
 44th over: Zimbabwe 273-6 (Williams 80, Chakabva 7) Chakabva hits the first ball to square leg for two, and the next to midwicket for a single, and then Williams pulls through midwicket for four as Zimbabwe, needing 10 an over, score 11. “Almost not in Zimbabwe’s best interests to win,” notes Ronan Campbell. “If Ireland go out it’s easier for the ICC to justify the 10-team tournament next time.” 
 43rd over: Zimbabwe 262-6 (Williams 73, Chakabva 2) Clearly these are key moments now, and Zimbabwe’s hopes lie in the hands of Sean Williams. Zimbabwe need precisely 70 runs from 42 balls at 10 runs an over. Updated
 Another one goes! Ervine reverse-sweeps the ball in the air straight to the only fielder in the neighbourhood, who pockets a straightforward catch at knee height. 
 42nd over: Zimbabwe 257-5 (Williams 72, Ervine 10) Mooney returns and varies his pace and line well to restrict the flow of runs. Williams makes space for a paddle sweep but the bowler spots his movement and slings the ball at his legs, the batsmen scurrying a leg bye. Zimbabwe need 75 runs from 48 balls at 9.4 an over. 
 41st over: Zimbabwe 254-5 (Williams 72, Ervine 8) Ervine hits smartly past square leg for four but then risks everything when knocking the ball dead and setting off for a single. O’Brien, the bowler, races in to collect the ball and take off the bails but Williams’s dive saves him. He then gets up, dusts himself down and hits to long-off, where the ball is misfielded into the rope. Zimbabwe need 78 to win. 
 40th over: Zimbabwe 241-5 (Williams 65, Ervine 3) Cusack bowls the final over of the batting powerplay, and after conceding three singles from his first five deliveries the fielders close in to prevent a single and ensure Ervine starts the next over on strike, so Williams hits through them for four. Zimbabwe need 91 to win with 10 overs remaining. 
 39th over: Zimbabwe 234-5 (Williams 60, Ervine 1) Williams pulls O’Brien’s first delivery for six, and then he miscues an attempted repeat but the ball drops short of the fielder. Ten runs off the over, bringing Zimbabwe’s total to a pleasing 234-5. Ireland were 218-3 at this stage. 
 38th over: Zimbabwe 224-5 (Williams 51, Ervine 0) Cusack strikes again, his variation of pace provoking a poor stroke out of Brendan Taylor. It was until that point an exemplary innings, but his side still need to score another 108 without him. 
 Taylor has gone! He tries to smack once again over the on side but the bat he’s confused by Cusack’s slower ball,and his handle slips in his gloves as it makes contact with the ball, which flies high into the air and down into the hands of O’Brien! Updated
 37th over: Zimbabwe 222-4 (Taylor 121, Williams 49) Dockrell’s first delivery is hoisted over long-off for six, and he clearly likes that particular spot because he picks it out again a few balls later, and then finds it again - the ball making its way there along the ground this time. Eighteen runs from the over, which has to hurt a bit. Updated
 36th over: Zimbabwe 204-4 (Taylor 103, Williams 49) Cusack, Ireland’s best and least expensive bowler thus far, returns and starts with three dot balls before Williams grabs a single and Taylor once again hits over mid-off, though this time he only gets two runs for it. 
 35th over: Zimbabwe 200-4 (Taylor 100, Williams 48) A fabulous effort from Taylor, who has batted his team back into this match. And he still can’t relax, with his team needing him to stay at the crease for a while yet. The review came from the final ball of the over, and was really wildly speculative. 
 The Irish spend a while discussing whether there had been any contact with the bat on its way through, and in the end they decide it’s worth a go. 
 34th over: Zimbabwe 198-4 (Taylor 99, Williams 47) Stirling bowls, and his first attempt is dispatched back over his head by Taylor for six, and then the next ball goes over mid-off and then away for four. In the end the over goes for 14 - his two overs so far have gone for 26 between them - and Taylor’s century is imminent. 
 33rd over: Zimbabwe 184-4 (Taylor 86, Williams 46) Dockrell’s back, and Taylor sweeps fine, the ball being athletically stopped just before the rope and the batsmen running three. This match is nicely poised now.  
 32nd over: Zimbabwe 180-4 (Taylor 83, Williams 45) McBrine’s first ball is lifted back over a short mid-off and rumbles away for four. Then Williams has a couple of goes at sweeping the ball through midwicket. Once he doesn’t quite catch it and he runs two, then he strikes it sweetly and it screams over the rope for four. Eleven off the over. 
 31st over: Zimbabwe 169-4 (Taylor 78, Williams 39) Williams pulls the ball towards square leg where Cusack slides to block the ball a yard from the rope, a few replays needed just to sure he wasn’t touching both at the same time. 
 30th over: Zimbabwe 164-4 (Taylor 77, Williams 36) This has been a beautiful partnership for Zimbabwe, basically chanceless, with Taylor in particular showcasing both power and subtlety and, more than anything, intelligence. McBrine returns and bowls well, though the batsmen nevertheless manoeuvre themselves to a couple of singles and a pair.  
 29th over: Zimbabwe 160-4 (Taylor 74, Williams 35) Taylor slices O’Brien’s second delivery to the fielder at short third man, who gets behind the ball, readies his hands, and is then bemused to see it kick right off the turf and disappear out of his reach and away for four. Every subsequent delivery yields a single run. Updated
 28th over: Zimbabwe 152-4 (Taylor 68, Williams 34) Mooney’s first three deliveries yield singles, and then Taylor tickles the fourth past fine leg for four. 
 27th over: Zimbabwe 144-4 (Taylor 62, Williams 32) Ireland have themselves been responsible for three of the six biggest successful run-chases in World Cup history but this would top the lot, beating Ireland’s 329-7 against England in 2011. O’Brien comes back, and his first delivery is pulled emphatically to the square leg boundary by Williams, while his last goes to a similar location off the bat of the right-handed Taylor. Add a scattering of singles and you’ve got yourself an 11-run over. 
 26th over: Zimbabwe 133-4 (Taylor 58, Williams 26) Mooney returns, with Ireland feeling that a wicket would be quite handy. They don’t get one of those, but the batsmen muster just a single apiece. 
 25th over: Zimbabwe 131-4 (Taylor 57, Williams 25) Ireland’s spinners haven’t been particularly parsimonious, or very dangerous. Taylor scoops the ball to extra cover, where the fielders are too deep to rush in and catch it - it’s as close as we’ve come to a wicket of late, and it wasn’t really very close. Halfway through the innings, and Zimbabwe are precisely 200 runs from securing a draw. 
 24rd over: Zimbabwe 125-4 (Taylor 53, Williams 23) A new bowler from Ireland but more spin, and Taylor brings up his half-century with a four clubbed through midwicket and a single to square leg. It’s taken him 38 balls to get there, and this pair are batting Zimbabwe back into this game (for all that there’s still a very long way to go). 
 23rd over: Zimbabwe 113-4 (Taylor 45, Williams 20) After a few singles Taylor flicks the ball faintly down to fine leg, where a fielder sets a new slow-running record, allowing the batsmen to run three. Really, if he’d been going any slower he’d have been stationary. 
 22nd over: Zimbabwe 106-4 (Taylor 41, Williams 17) Williams, who looks in good nick, reverse-sweeps for four, a fine shot that sends the ball rocketing along the carpet. 
 21st over: Zimbabwe 100-4 (Taylor 40, Williams 12) A couple of singles and then Williams thumps over midwicket for four to send Zimbabwe’s total ticking into three figures.  
 20th over: Zimbabwe 94-4 (Taylor 39, Williams 7) With spinners at both ends the overs are whizzing by. Taylor thumps the ball high over mid-on, not perfectly timed but nowhere near a fielder, though one appears in time to stop it crossing the boundary. He repeats the stroke next ball, only this time he’s honed it, and it flies this time over midwicket and hits the advertising hoardings for six. 
 18th over: Zimbabwe 79-4 (Taylor 28, Williams 3) McBrine continues, and Zimbabwe score a few singles. A handy state-of-play summary from Andy Zaltzman: Assuming Ire beat Zim today, winner of Pak v Ire on 15 Mar will go through. Loser likely to be in a Net-Run-Rate contest with W.I. 
 17th over: Zimbabwe 76-4 (Taylor 26, Williams 2) Dockrell’s over yields a wicket and ust two runs. Zimbabwe are scoring quickly enough - Ireland had 64 on the board at this stage - but it matters not if their wickets continue to tumble. Updated