 How does it feel to exist in a life so dominated by digital technologies? Laurence Scott’s The Four-Dimensional Human is a delicate, reflective book that compares our modern transformation to the Victorian preoccupation with a spiritual and science-fictional fourth dimension of being. Rather than explore the more clinical concerns about attention spans or concentration, Scott says he wanted to explore our shared anxieties about living in a pervasively networked environment. “We are engaged in a 24/7 news cycle of the self,” he says. “People claim to feel more isolated, more restless than ever, and there’s a self-consciousness to our behaviour.” We are constantly filtering, he says, and explains that his students now refer to things as “grammable”, or Instagrammable, as a currency of social value, because eventually new technologies change our behaviour when they become mainstream. Our constant re-presentation of ourselves gives us an illusory feeling of being the publicity reps for our own lives. “There’s always been this comical idea that we don’t have the copyright to our own lives. Who you are will be composed of other people, gossip you can’t control – we’re always bleeding out of ourselves and we can’t control the perceptions of others. If we’re honest, there’s an emotional toll to the idea of being our own publicists: how was my latest release really perceived?” The concept of a fourth-dimensional human was in its heyday between 1890 and 1910, variously explored as time manipulation, literary fantasy and a philosophical exercise in the boundaries of the human condition. Our modern experience of this “other” way of being is more tense, a “conflict landscape”, says Scott. “The vocabulary of social media is gothic, even barbaric. Friends talk of a Facebook ‘cull’, and used to talk of ‘committing suicide’, which meant closing their account. We would never bandy that word around in real life, yet the immaterial qualities of digital life allow us to talk like that, casualness collapsing into callousness.” Scott cautions a kind of vigilance where new technology is concerned. While the ability to interact in real-time video with someone on the other side of the world is astonishing, and definitely new, eventually technology ends up changing our relationships and how we communicate with each other. “Students of media and communications will tell you there’s no such thing as neutral technology, that it’s too simplistic to say technology is just a tool used for good or for bad, because the actual design of a service can encourage certain behaviour.” Of many recent titles exploring how technology is affecting all of our lives, Scott’s book is a gentle meditation that drifts through observations about our behaviour, our state of mind and our sense of self, without manufactured conclusion or a clumsy inevitability. And he defines something many of us feel, a need to resist the relentlessness of immersive technology, and the constant enthusiasm for technology that runs parallel with our anxiety and claustrophobia. 