This one has two meanings: 1) either Trump will behave normally, or 2) he will be the new normal. Whatever, an urgent de-normalisation may soon be needed Contact author 
 Oxford Dictionaries has declared that the word of 2016 is “post-truth”. I don’t agree. I’m with those who say the year’s most horribly relevant word is “normalisation”. That’s because, unlike all the other buzz phrases, it has two meanings, sneaking up on your mind in a creepy pincer movement. It either means: “Trying to kid yourself that President Trump will forget his bigoted views and accept he must govern more or less normally.” Or: “Trying to kid other people into forgetting President Trump’s views and into accepting bigotry in government as more or less normal.” Normalisation has two sides – like the dismal practice of blaming liberals for Hillary Clinton’s loss, much indulged in by the gloating right and the self-hating left. These are times when words matter. The glossy term “alt-right” or even “alt.right” (with the super-modern web-style dot in the middle) has replaced “extreme right”. I myself always objected to the subtly emollient “far right”. Well, there are now just 18 days to go before the Austrian presidential elections on 4 December, topping up our already brimming levels of fear with the expected election of Norbert Hofer, the extreme-right candidate from the Freedom party. Hofer’s victory would require a clarification of speech from the commenting world, and we will have to be less squeamish about the word “fascist”: an urgent de-normalisation of political language. These are interesting times for Yvette Cooper, Labour MP and now chair of the home affairs select committee. Her husband Ed Balls is being fast-tracked to national treasure status with his increasingly glorious performances on TV’s Strictly Come Dancing, recently giving his hilarious interpretation of Gangnam Style, which was actually sort-of not bad at all. Can Ed’s success have any bearing on a possible parliamentary comeback? Can reality TV celebrity be translated into political success? Are there any examples of … Ahem. Let’s not board that train of thought. Suffice to say that Cooper now has to be in the audience for Strictly every week and she knows the cameras are on her. Her facial expression has to convey a number of complex things: good-humoured enjoyment, yes, but combined with a careful hint of goggle-eyed astonishment, to emphasise that being a good sport is fine, but political seriousness is not being abandoned just for the glamour of Strictly. Last week Cooper gave that great facial performance. I’d give it an enthusiastic, Bruno Tonioli-style 10. I am in Amsterdam, for the international documentary film festival. The last time I was here, I timidly came to a coffee shop and consumed nothing but coffee, which was a bit like going to a 1930s American speakeasy and having a glass of R White’s lemonade. So I am, of course, intrigued about the city’s newest tourist attraction: a hangover bar, open at weekends, in which sufferers can come in and have a bit of a lie down in soothingly subdued lighting, while sipping vitamin-enriched smoothies. The catch is that you have to fail, or rather pass, a breathalyser test to be allowed in – to make sure that you still have alcohol in your system, that you’re properly hung over and not a healthy type who just fancies some pampering. That would be like some boring civilian trying to gain access to a bondage club on the grounds that his man-bag was made of leather. Of course, you could argue that the hangover bar is a soft touch for boozers, enabling alcohol abuse. I prefer to believe it will be one of Amsterdam’s great inventions: social methadone. 