The UK’s main political parties plunge into leadership elections as European leaders attempt to move on from the Brexit vote 
Nadia Khomami 
 Good morning and welcome to our continuing daily briefing as the UK continues to pick up the pieces after the Brexit vote. The coming battle between Theresa May and Boris Johnson is the focus of the Guardian’s lead story . Both Tory ‘big beasts’ will today announce they are running to become leader of the Conservative party, with each claiming to be the unifying candidate Britain needs as its prime minister after the divisive EU referendum. The home secretary will be the first to make her ambitions known in a speech at around 9.30am, saying the UK needs to be “a country that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us”. Johnson, who is widely considered the frontrunner after leading the leave campaign, will make his own declaration at around 11.30am – just half an hour before the deadline for nominations closes. Alan Travis in the Guardian asks “who is more liberal”? Meanwhile, in the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn continues to resist pressure to resign, including from his deputy Tom Watson. Today Angela Eagle, the former shadow business secretary, is expected to launch a bid for the leadership, pledging to reunify the fractured party, which has been locked in a vicious internal battle since the weekend. An ally of Eagle said: We’ve got the numbers, we’ve got the big hitters, it will probably be [Thursday] afternoon. Earlier, Watson became the most senior party figure to call on Corbyn to resign, telling the BBC: “ It’s a great tragedy. He does have a members’ mandate, but those members who join a political party know that you also need a parliamentary mandate if you are to form a government. You have to have the authority of the members and your members of parliament, and I’m afraid he doesn’t have that with our MPs. Former Labour leaders Gordon Brown and Ed Miliband added their voices to those calling for him to go. Corbyn’s response? “Leave it, Jez, ‘e ain’t worth it. We’ve all ‘ad a drink.” - “Come back here, Miliband, and say that to my face.” pic.twitter.com/zOWQdBXZ8D Last night, Jamie Reed, the MP for Copeland, tweeted a strong-worded letter he sent to the Labour leader outlining why he should resign, in which he says his “duplicitious behaviour is not worthy of any democratic politician. There is nothing Labour about it.” My letter to @jeremycorbyn tonight. pic.twitter.com/QHYkhs7sx0 Nonetheless Corbyn continues to draw crowds and addressed a rally outside the School of African Studies in London last night.  Arron Banks, the Brexit campaign’s biggest financial donor has said he is considering backing a new political party taking in members of Ukip, Labour and the Conservatives. In a sign that the referendum aftershocks already rocking the Conservative and Labour parties could be spreading to Ukip, the insurance multi-millionaire and Ukip funder criticised the party’s growth and proposed harnessing Brexit support in a new party. When asked if Farage would be in charge, he said the Ukip leader “may have had enough”. He added: I think Ukip needs to be reformed root and branch and we will be looking at that. With a million supporters there’s also a wonderful opportunity if we want to do something, to back something. I think a new party, a brand new party. Ukip grew so rapidly it had problems with personnel and all sorts of issues and I believe that could be better tackled with a new party. The splash across the front of The Times is drawn from an opinion piece inside the paper by May, in which she seeks to cast herself as a “One Nation” Tory figure who can unite the UK and her party amid divisions in the wake of last week’s Brexit vote as she set out her pitch for the Tory leadership. It includes a not-so-subtle dig at Boris Johnson, when which she writes about the struggles of some in society: Frankly, not everybody in Westminster understands what it’s like to live like this. And some need to be told that what the government does isn’t a game. A photo of Michael Gove and his wife, the journalist Sarah Vine, are splashed across the front of the Telegraph, which focuses on the leaked email in which she warned him about the risks of backing Boris Johnson for the Tory Party leadership without ‘specific’ guarantees on immigration controls. The Telegraph goes on to report that “friends” of Johnson said he would set out a “positive” vision for Britain as he is joined by Gove today during the launch of a bid to succeed David Cameron at the helm of the Tory Party and the country. The Financial Times features Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, exchanging pleasantries with Jean Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission. Its lead story reports how European leaders “issued a stark rebuff” to British hopes of a favourable new trade deal with the EU yesterday, hardening their conditions for allowing access to the single market after the UK leaves the union. The FT reports that Dalia Grybauskaite, Lithuania’s president, summed up the “stoical” mood at the summit in Brussels, when she said: “Today is about us. Of course we will move on. Who will stop us?” Jeremy Corbyn must do the decent thing. Prune that rosebush outside his front door so he doesn’t have to duck under it every morning. 