The writer and TV presenter was motion captured for the latest in the World War Two war game series – now he's available for everyone to shoot at 
 We're used to him firing insults at politicians and celebrities, but soon he'll be firing bullets at video game players. Writer, critic and television presenter Charlie Brooker is appearing in the World War Two simulation, Sniper Elite 3 as a German field officer accompanying Hitler. In April, games developer Rebellion revealed that it had offered Brooker the chance to star in the latest Sniper Elite title after he praised the game series in his Guardian column. The star of Newswipe and Ten O'Clock Live was filmed in a motion capture studio so his physical movements could be placed in the game. His voice was also captured and it will be used in a series of radio recordings that players can discover throughout the story.  Unfortunately, for fans (and indeed non-fans) of Brooker, access to his appearance will be limited. Only those who pre-order the game before its 27 June release will get the bonus level in which he appears. It's likely however, that the content will be made available at a later date to all Sniper Elite 3 owners. Brooker is a veteran video game fan. He once wrote for specialist magazine PC Zone and has presented documentaries on games, including Gameswipe and How Video Games Changed the World. He is only the latest in a series of celebrity gamers to make it into the industry through sheer force of fandom. Comedy actor Peter Serafinowicz was approached to appear in fantasy action adventure Dark Souls 2 when he professed his love for the game, while movie star Vin Diesel liked gaming so much he bought his own development studio.  Those who do manage to play the bonus mission in Sniper Elite 3 will apparently be well rewarded with in-game achievement points; there is a special bonus available for the most imaginative Brooker assassination – a fact that will no doubt appeal to the darkly cynical humorist who wrote, "I will never tire of hiding in the mountains, blowing people's heads off from a distance with a high-velocity rifle." • Sniper Elite 3: Charlie Brooker to cameo between the crosshairs • Charlie Brooker on why video game television is so hard to make 