Rolling coverage of the day’s political developments as they happen, including the Commons debate on Sir Philip Green 
Andrew Sparrow 
16:05
 I have said it very clearly; Madame Theresa May wants a hard Brexit, then talks will be hard too. I’m not going into operational specifics, but yes, you know we are conducting military operations against Daesh as part of the international coalition, and I can confirm that we are using offensive cyber for the first time in this campaign. That’s all from me for today, and for another 10 days. I’ll put up a readers’ edition blog next week, and next week I’ll be off for the half-term break. My colleagues Jessica Elgot, Haroon Siddique and Peter Walker will be driving the blog in my place. Thanks for the comments. Updated
15:57
 Martin Schulz, president of the European parliament, has reaffirmed his opposition to the EU starting Brexit negotiations with the UK until article 50 is invoked. He posted these messages on Twitter. On #Brexit, kick-off date for withdrawal process now indicated. However, such indication is not the same as actually invoking Art50 #EUCO There will be no pre-negotiations before Art50 is invoked. Once #UK gov decides what relationship it seeks, EU will be ready to act #EUCO He also restated his opposition to the UK retaining full access to the single market if it refuses to accept freedom of movement. 4 freedoms go together. What alienates so many people from EU is feeling that capital, goods & services have more value than people #EUCO 
15:48
 Ipsos MORI has published some polling today suggesting that more people think the UK should prioritise access to the single market in the Brexit negotiations (45%) than think it should prioritise controlling immigration (39%). This is significant because the Theresa May has made it clear that she sees controlling immigration as more important, although May and other ministers insist both objectives are achievable. New - The public now clearly puts access to the single market (45%) over controlling immigration (39%) in #brexit - but remains split. pic.twitter.com/5Sb4fqLmTi As Ipsos MORI says, opinion is split largely in line with how people voted in the referendum. Public opinion is largely split along the lines of how specific groups tended to vote in the referendum on EU membership. The single market is the priority for professionals and skilled workers with more than half (54%) of ABC1s and two in three (67%) graduates preferring Britain to put this option first. This compares with those in social classes C2DE preferring to prioritise immigration control (51%), as do those without a qualification (53%). There is also a clear age difference. Fifty-seven percent of 18-34 year olds favour access to the single market (24% favour immigration control) compared with 32% of those aged 55+ (50% of whom favour immigration control). Public still divided on single market access vs immigration control post-Brexit (on EU ref voting lines) @IpsosMORI https://t.co/JnoU4gX6Wv pic.twitter.com/c9LdP1biVv 
15:40
 Jessica Elgot Jeremy Corbyn has accused the prime minister of delaying the government’s commitment to bringing lone child refugees to the UK, including those who do not have family in the UK. The Labour leader said it was “worryingly unclear what system the Government has in place to continue to identify and register children to see who might be eligible.” Child refugees have two legal routes to enter the UK, the first under the EU’s Dublin Regulation to reunite children with families already in the UK, and the second is the government’s commitment in the so-called Dubs amendment to the Immigration Act. Under this amendment, introduced by Alf Dubs, the Labour peer who arrived in the UK as a Kindertransport child refugee, the government pledged to take an unspecified number of unaccompanied refugee children, without them having family ties. At the time of the amendment in May, Home Office sources briefed around 3,000 would be allowed into the UK, though since the act was passed it appears that no children have arrived in the UK under its provisions. In a letter to Theresa May, Corbyn said there was an “obvious delay in implementing the Alf Dubs amendment and commitments to help child refugees.” Today Corbyn has been meeting Labour MEPs and others in Brussels. Meeting with Labour MEPs in Brussels today - Labour will work to protect jobs and workers' rights from a chaotic Tory Brexit pic.twitter.com/Wlg66QS7vV While Tory Brexit team is in chaos, I've had a great discussion with @pes_pse president @SergeiStanishev on European sister party engagement pic.twitter.com/QvK69TBGIU I had an excellent and timely conversation on cooperation on the refugee crisis and Brexit with social democratic Czech PM @SlavekSobotka pic.twitter.com/Ed5HJHbhTC 
15:27
 And these are from the BBC’s Europe editor Katya Adler. #Malta PM just told me some #EU leaders still think #Brexit might not happen #EUsummit #Malta PM tells me #UK talk of leaving #EU single market but paying to have good access to some parts of it -simply won't happen #Brexit #Malta PM tells me #EU leaders following PM May's #UK speeches closely and believe #immigration is her top #Brexit priority 
15:15
 Here are some more tweets from Laura Kuenssberg from the EU summit. May hardly mentioned Brexit on way in - chose to focus on Russia instead, one of main items on agenda May-'the UK is leaving EU, but will continue to play full role until we leave and will be a strong and dependable partner after we've left' Tusk says Summit isn't a 'lion's den' but a 'nest of doves' for UK But warns May again not to try even for informal talks Tusk is Donald Tusk, the president of the European council. Not exactly a warm welcome, from Tusk this is 'a request to Theresa May, only a short information, not discussions' Every leader who's talked about Brexit so far on arrival has said UK has to decide what it wants first before any proper conversations Also doesn't bode well for potentail free trade deal btw EU and UK - Tusk warns CETA 'could be our last free trade deal' 
15:09
 This is from the BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg, who is at the EU summit in Brussels. Translation typo - Hollande, 'I say to May firmly, if she wants a hard Brexit, negotiations will be hard' 
15:06
 Back to Brexit for a moment. This morning David Davis, the Brexit secretary, told MPs that Norway trades perfectly well with Sweden even though it is outside the customs union. (See 10.13am.) But in the comments BTL acme and maxfisher have both flagged up this blog by L Alan Winters, an economics professor and head of the UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO), about Sweden and Brexit. He says: Swedish exporters find exporting to Norway far more troublesome than exporting within the EU. This chimes with the UKTPO’s argument that the EEA is not a simple alternative to belonging to the EU customs union and Single Market (see: Roos And Rules: Why The EEA Is Not The Same As Membership Of The Single Market Briefing Paper).  
14:56
 Here is my colleague David Conn on the Commons vote. MPs vote to strip Sir Philip Green of knighthood - but his business practices were all known when he got it, and he was made a govt advisor. 
14:53
 Here is my colleague Zoe Wood’s story on the Green vote. 
14:50
 Here is the amendment MPs have passed. [This House] noting that Philip Green received his knighthood for his services for the retail industry, believes his actions raise the question of whether he should be allowed to continue to be a holder of the honour and calls on the honours forfeiture committee to recommend his knighthood be cancelled and annulled. MPs voted in favour by acclamation. (Voting always starts with the speaker, or deputy speaker, asking if MPs are in favour of a motion. If they all shout “aye”, and no one shouts “no”, as happened on this occasion, the motion gets passed without a formal division. That is not quite the same as the Commons voting unanimously in favour of something, because many MPs were not in the chamber. But no MPs spoke out against Green losing his knighthood.) It is now up to the honours forfeiture committee, a group of civil servants chaired by Sir Sir Jonathan Stephens, permanent secretary at the Northern Ireland Office, to decide what to do. It does not have to obey the House of Commons in this matter but, given the importance the government places on parliamentary sovereignty in the context of Brexit, it would be odd for Heywood and his committee to snub the Commons on this. Of course, if Green were to act speedily and generously to make up the shortfall in the BHS pension fund, as MPs demanded, the committee could decide that that somehow superseded the Commons vote. UPDATE: The original post wrongly said the forfeiture committee is chaired by Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary. But it is chaired by Sir Jonathan Stephens.  Updated