Poor Ronald McDonald. Following the scary clown appearances that shocked people around the globe, the burger chain has decided to cut back on public appearances of its pasty-faced mascot. That is not the only bad news for McDonald’s, which reports third-quarter figures on Friday. According to the Wall Street Journal, an internal memo shows that only one in five millennials has ever tried a Big Mac. No wonder the company is trying so hard to reinvent itself. It is now 18 months into a transformation plan led by British-born chief executive Steve Easterbrook, which includes offering all-day breakfasts, improving the quality of the food on offer, and selling thousands of its restaurants to franchisees. Last week it said it would be making $130m of restructuring charges in this latest quarter and would increase the number of restaurants sold to franchisees from 3,500 to 4,000, out of a total of 36,000. In July, McDonald’s reported a 4% fall in second-quarter revenues amid growing consumer uncertainty. Since then, thanks to further turmoil after the Brexit vote and the increasingly vicious US election campaign, things have hardly improved. Still, analysts expect third-quarter revenues to be unchanged or only marginally lower. Anything else could prove very scary for investors. With Burberry planning to end its experiment with creative director Christopher Bailey also acting as chief executive, the luxury goods group could be back on the road to recovery. In the summer, the company announced that Bailey would move back to his creative role, and that Marco Gobbetti, the man behind LVMH’s Céline brand, would take over as chief executive some time in 2017. During his tenure Bailey was unfortunate to face a slowdown in demand for luxury goods, particularly in China and Hong Kong. But since the summer things have picked up, helped by the slump in the pound – which is boosting its overseas profits as well as tempting more tourists to visit London and snap up its trademark beige check. Recent positive comments from LVMH on trading in Hong Kong also bode well for Burberry, which releases its latest update on Tuesday. Despite the delay in Gobbetti starting, analysts at Berenberg said: “The recently revamped management team should provide the necessary talent and focus to steer it in the right direction. We believe that the second-quarter results [this week] could mark Burberry’s return to positive like-for-like sales.” It’s rare to see a company winning plaudits over its pay policy and then almost immediately being slapped down. But mining group BHP Billiton has achieved that distinction before its annual meeting on Thursday. Corporate governance advisor Pirc praised the company for not paying chief executive Andrew Mackenzie anything under its various incentive schemes last year, cutting his bonus to zero following the dam disaster at the Samarco mine in Brazil in 2015 and the decline in commodity markets that has undermined the whole sector. Pirc said: “This is a welcome use of the remuneration committee’s discretion. Furthermore, the ratio of chief executive to average employee pay is considered acceptable.” But before BHP could get too carried away, Pirc criticised plans to give Mackenzie up to 200% of his salary under further incentive schemes, “which is considered excessive”. It added: “Performance targets for short-term incentives are not disclosed, making it impossible for shareholders to judge if the targets are challenging.” It said proposed long-term incentive plans were not “an effective means of incentivising performance … not properly long-term and are subject to manipulation due to their discretionary nature”. 