 DON'T MENTION THE A-WORD As Oscar Wilde never quite had the wit to point out, there's only one thing better than being talked about, and that's being talked about six or seven months ahead of the next Ashes. OK, so Wilde would probably have expressed it in slightly pithier terms, but you get the point. And if Wilde were still around today, you can be sure he would have enjoyed the many-pronged Australian assault on English nerves this week - an assault that leaves the Spin wondering exactly which side is more anxious about this winter's latest Greatest Series Ever. It should be England, of course, since they have everything to lose. But two factors are keeping them helpfully anchored in the here and now: next week's first Test against Sri Lanka, the first of 17 international matches between May 11 and September 10; and an injury list which has suddenly taken on such alarming proportions that Sajid Mahmood might find himself armed with the new ball a week on Thursday. In English minds, the Ashes are something to worry about later. Australia, on the other hand, can hardly think about anything else, which is understandable given the results of a survey that showed that two-thirds of all Aussies regard the Ashes as the nation's most pressing sporting engagement. In recent times, then, we have heard the following pronouncements: "We let them back in [last summer]. This Australian side is an amazing side. England are a very good team but Australia are better. I think [Flintoff] carries England and that is a big responsibility" - Matthew Hayden, who fell three times to Matthew Hoggard last summer. "England will have to come out to Australia and have to try and retain the trophy. It's a different position for them to be in. I am not sure they like it. For the first time, it will be us chasing England. It's a different mindset. I think they like the position that they are the underdogs and if they win, they win" - Shane Warne explains why it's better to keep losing. "I think it's dangerous for them to get caught up in every ball and become too intense with it. If you make it too complicated, it can have an adverse effect on your performance" - Michael Hussey generously warns England against getting too excited about their new video system which allows them to analyse every delivery bowled in county cricket this summer. "We believe that everything is sort of on course" - Ricky Ponting's ringing endorsement. Now the Spin is media-savvy enough to know that players have to respond to the - often leading - questions they are asked by journalists with agendas. But the players are also savvy enough to avoid answering them if they so desire. And one thing is clear: the Australians, like kids before Christmas excited about their presents yet secretly dreading what Santa will bring, are more than happy to build things up. Yet of all the statements, only Warne's observation that England prefer to be underdogs rings completely true. It reminds the Spin of the time Steve Waugh walked out to bat against England to total silence. Mike Atherton had concluded reasonably enough that Waugh used sledging to get him going, but Waugh, as ever, was one step ahead. "Not talking to me, eh? In that case I'll just have to talk to myself," he sneered, before sledging himself all the way to another century. England, similarly, need to convince themselves that they are up against it. The national tendency to talk down one's chances gives them a natural advantage, but as long as the Australians keep doing the job for them, they won't have to make too much of an effort themselves. So here's the plan. England must avoid all talk of the A-word until the plane touches down on Australian soil in November and secretly convince themselves they haven't got a prayer. Now, who's going to take 20 Sri Lankan wickets at Lord's next week...? o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o QUOTE OF THE WEEK "John must have misunderstood what I was saying. He must have been listening to something else, his computer, or something" - Shane Warne responds to claims that John Buchanan thought he might be reconsidering a return to one-day international cricket. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o EXTRAS Ever since the far-from-sordid details one of the Spin's hazier nights at university were sold to the college mag in exchange for an essay on Kant's Categorical Imperative, this column has winced in sympathy at the sight of a tabloid kiss 'n' tell. But it wasn't quite sure what to make of Sunday's interview in the Observer with Terri Reece, the definitive busty blonde whose alleged night of passion with Simon Jones came to light during last summer's Lord's Test and prompted the following line in Jones's BBC website column: "It's not been a very good couple of days for me. Not only did we lose the first Test, but my girlfriend has left me." Now it is not the Spin's intention to rake over old tittle-tattle, especially not the bit where Jones supposedly makes Terri a cup of tea and offers her a nibble on his Pringles. But it was intrigued by the insight offered by the Observer into the mind of the kisser 'n' teller. Terri claimed that the papers were alerted to her soirée amoureuse by a friend ("I don't speak to her now") who had failed to sell a dalliance of her own with Darren Gough. "The next thing all the papers were on the phone offering me money," moaned Terri, clearly shocked by the cynicism of the modern world. "I've dated footballers before and I've always said I would never sell a story," she said, digging her spurs into her moral high horse. "But when you get offered that much money [£10,000 from the News of the World] you're tempted." Ah. The most touching aspect of the whole affair, however, comes when Terri rings Simon to get him to confirm the night in question for the benefit of the red-top. So she chose the morning of the Lord's Test ... at 7am. "'Hi, it's Terri. Do you remember the night we spent together?' He said: 'Yeah.' That was all I needed." Terri goes on to relate how the NoW reporter proceeded to make up the juicy details ("I had been drunk out of my face"), and how "Sunday was the worst day of my life", partly because her grandparents are avid readers of the paper in question. But worse was to come when the Sport ran the same story the following week! "They used really crude words for willy. And they'd managed to get a photo of me with my nipple out - I don't even do t0pless. It was a horrible picture. I looked fat, my knickers were all twisted, my lipstick was really red." The Spin's heart bleeds. In fact it is willing to go on record now and accept any offer of £10,000 to pose nipple out, knickers twisted and lipstick red. But it draws the line at the tea and Pringles. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o THE WEEK IN CRICKET ● A century from Andrew Symonds helps Australia to a 67-run win in the second ODI against Bangladesh at Fatullah ● Jonathan Hughes, a club cricketer with North Leeds, hits 42 in an over which includes two no-balls. Hughes hits Craig Hobson of Hall Park for six sixes, a four and a two in the Airedale and Wharfedale League's Waddilove Cup ● Brian Lara replaces Shivnarine Chanderpaul as captain of West Indies - the third time he has done the job ● Shahid Afridi reverses his decision to retire from Test cricket after apparently being talked round by Shaharyar Khan, the chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board, and the national coach Bob Woolmer ● Australia appoint Mike Young, a former baseball coach, as their part-time fielding consultant for the next 12 months ● Stephen Fleming hits 262 and the No9 James Franklin 122 not out in an eighth-wicket stand of 256 after New Zealand are asked to bat by Graeme Smith in the second Test at Cape Town. New Zealand declare on 593 for 8, only for South Africa to reply with 512, thanks to 149 from Hashim Amla and 108 not out by Ashwell Prince ● Mark Cosgrove, a 21-year-old left-handed opener from South Australia, hammers 74 from 69 balls on his international debut as Australia thrash Bangladesh by nine wickets at Fatullah to complete a 3-0 clean sweep in the ODI series ● West Indies beat Zimbabwe by five wickets at Antigua in the first game of their five-match one-day series, and then take the second game by 98 runs ● Asia are awarded the 2011 World Cup ahead of Australia and New Zealand, who will jointly stage the competition in 2015. England will be hosts in 2019 ● The first Twenty20 world championship will be played in South Africa in 2007, with England staging the second competition in 2009 ● Shahid O'Afridi returns figures of 8-6-4-3 as Ireland begin their Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy campaign with a 47-run win over Gloucestershire at Bristol ● England suffer two more injury scares as Simon Jones limps out of Glamorgan's game against Ireland with a knee problem and Jimmy Anderson is diagnosed with a potential stress fracture of the lower back ● Kevin Pietersen hits 98 in 73 balls in his first innings of the season for Hampshire, in the C&G Trophy against Essex at the Rose Bowl o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o CONTACT THE SPIN Email lawrence.booth@ and if you want his employers to take any notice of what you're saying to him (whether we should sack him or give him a pay rise, for example), you could do worse than cc. sports.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk while you're at it. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o OUT! If you wish to unsubscribe from The Spin, send an empty email to The_Spin-request@guardianunlimited.co.uk with "unsubscribe" in the subject line and nothing in the body of the mail. You can also subscribe and unsubscribe at http://sport./thespin Guardian Unlimited (c) Guardian Newspapers Limited 2002 Registered in England and Wales No. 908396. Registered office: 164 Deansgate, Manchester M60 2RR ------------------------------------------------------------------ Visit Guardian Unlimited - the UK's most popular newspaper website http:// http://observer.co.uk ------------------------------------------------------------------ 