 He had already suffered Wimbledon’s agony. Now he has savoured its ecstasy. And all by the age of 17 years and 228 days. Boris Becker, who last year reached the championships as a qualifier only to leave in a wheelchair, his left ankle torn and useless, yesterday became the youngest men’s title winner in the tournament’s 99 years when he beat Kevin Curren in a final that may well herald a new era in world tennis. Never before has three been an unseeded winner. Never before has the title gone to a West German. Never before has a player catapulted from nonentity to champion in a mere 55 weeks. This extraordinary boy completed the transformation and a man’s job to boot, when his maturity, power and confidence carried him to a 6-3 6-7 7-6 6-4 triumph in three hours and 18 minutes the Centre Court will long remember. Better finals have been seen. But not performances of such astonishing quality from a player of such limited experience. Until two weeks ago Becker had played in only 26 tournaments on the senior circuit. His one win was the Wimbledon “rehearsal” at Queen’s. That, though, was in the absence of the world’s best – notably John McEnroe. No one thought he could do the same at the game’s premier event: yesterday he proved them wrong. Becker is almost two years younger than the previous youngest men’s champion, Wilfred Baddeley, who won the title in 1891. That, though, was in a far different era – the days of limited entry and challenge rounds. Today the standard is higher than ever. But the early development of players is gathering pace. Only in 1982 Mats Wilander, then also 17, became the youngest French champion. Little wonder, then, that McEnroe feels the pressure is on him and, at 26, speaks of “feeling old”. What yesterday’s result means in the long term remains a matter for conjecture. Curren is convinced Becker has the all-court game to be world No. 1 in time. “He’s got youth on his side and he’s going to get stronger,” said the 27-year-old runner-up. Winning Wimbledon, nevertheless, represents an incredible apprenticeship. To his German friends and supporters Becker represents – or so they hope – an aexample which will aid their sport just as Bjorn Borg’s success prompted a tennis explosion in Sweden. And Becker, tall and blond, is an idol the young are certain to follow. His game is burnished with adventure. His power is awesome, his touch delicate and his ambition knows no bounds. At 17, moreover, he has achieved what even his great predecessor Gottfried von Cramm found beyond him. But the power of Hurricane Curren, which many thought would sweep him aside, did not materialise. The storm had accounted for McEnroe and Jimmy Connors but, in the final, it had lost its force. Curren was broken as early as the second game and that seemed to set the pattern. “I played a horrific game at that moment,” admitted Curren. “I was too eager and that sort of set me on the wrong path. Had I stayed in that first set it might have been different because he didn’t break me again until the third when I was a break up.” But both agreed it was that third set game which settled the match. Curren, holding back on serve, had begun to trouble Becker by jamming the ball to his backhand. “At 4-3 I used that ploy, but suddenly he made all his returns and I found myself 0-40 down. I got it back to 30-40, hit a volley that I thought was deep enough and he suddenly rips this backhand into the corner.” At that moment Becker felt for the first time the title was in his grasp. “I started to return better and better. Maybe at that moment I had more confidence than Kevin. Anyway, I said to myself ‘let’s go for it’. My aim then was just to try and win every point.” Becker’s serving put Curren under greater pressure than either McEnroe of Connors. Occasionally he produced shots like flashes of lightning, at other times he rained down burst of aces – 21 by the end. “I’ve played harder servers,” said Curren., “but none with greater placement. He not only hits hard but has wonderful wrist snap as well. But as far as volleying goes, he’s not yet in the same department as McEnroe. His weakness is around the net. Every time I got a return low he looked sort of lost. My problem was that I couldn’t make enough of them.” Curren’s own inconsistencies – too ften he voleyed lazily – ment the match never really boiled untl midway through the third set. By then Becker, whose eagerness to win was ever more apparent, was streaked with dust from repeated headlong dives. Indeed he looked more like a rugby than a tennis player, while the court, which had to be swept, looked more like clay than grass. Curren must still have felt that he had a chance however, as the match went into its second tiebreak. Sudeen death finales have long been his speciality, but even he could do nothing as Becker took the first six points to establish a set-winning position. The final set was uphill all the way for the former South African. He engineered chances but each time Becker slammed the door. At 3-5 Curren’s eighth double fault gave the German match point. But his backhand found the net. Serving for the match he earned another, this time with his 21st ace. It was his turn, then, to double fault. But on match point three he made no mistake, exploding a serve which caught the edge of Curren’s racket and flew into the crowd; never to return. As one the 15,000 present rose to greet the new champion. At Birmingham in January he had been crowned Young Master. Here, on the greatest tennis stage of all, he had lived up to that description. 