This was not written by Sam Wollaston. When Wollaston came to work yesterday, he was told that the Guardian had issued a standardisation programme across all operations, and that his would no longer be a human role. This review was therefore produced by a synth, a green-eyed anthropomorphic robot, using statistical analysis of the electrical responses in the brains of a test group of sentient synths who were shown the television programme Humans (Channel 4, Sunday). Oi! What do you mean that would be an improvement? I was begging for it, I guess. But I’m still here – just, for about another five minutes, if things keep progressing as they are. In this series-two opener, Joe loses his job as a regional distribution manager to a synth. Science fiction? Maybe, but in the real world of logistics, last week a driverless truck made a delivery of beer in Colorado. As with Black Mirror, if this stuff is not here already, it is really not so far off. The Singularity Is Near. And look, on TV at least, the singularity is here, in Joe and Laura’s new house, where the builder synth has a new assistant. A human one, a boy, who is part of a government scheme to get people back to work. Man works for machine. How do Joe and Laura, the boy and you feel about that? It’s one of the beauties of Humans: it constantly throws up interesting questions about tech and the future that also resonate with the present and relate to humanity, ethics, politics, immigration even. (Synths are basically immigrants – they do all the shitty jobs and now people feel threatened by them.) In the first series, these were mainly questions about whether you would get one; and, if so, would you have sex with it; and, if so, and if you were also with someone else, to what extent would that be cheating on them (it gets more complicated with sentient synths, like Anita, with whom Joe had sex). Now, it’s getting more complex still, as sentience spreads. It is about procreation, morality and rights. That is what is happening – sentience is spreading. Niska, another sentient synth, ran off with the consciousness code, remember? Now a lesbian living in Berlin, she releases the programme on to the net. So that, in Bolivia, an underground mining synth suddenly feels his fingers and a strong urge to see daylight. At a Nottingham chemical plant, another worker synth drops her load and makes a run for it. They hook up with Max and Leo who are still hanging around in the woods. The miner came here by stowing away on trucks and ships. Ring any bells? But there are bad guys in the woods, too, with vans and guns, out to get them. Humans is a pulse-quickening thriller, and the chase is back on. Noooo, the Bolivian gets shot, before he has even chosen himself a name. Anita, meanwhile, works at a failing beach cafe, doing her best not to show she has feelings to her nice, unbusinesslike employer/owner who she clearly has feelings for. When she can, she slips away to feel the grass, or the sea breeze on her cheek and other un-robot-like things. And Joe and Laura are seeing a relationship counsellor because of what happened with Anita. The counsellor’s a synth, and that might be a good idea – basing her advice on statistical evidence. Plus, Joe and Laura appear to be able to open up and be honest to her in a way they might not be able to if she was human. They also seem to be re-bonding with each other over the absurdity of the situation. Shrinkbots – along with automated lorry drivers and regional distribution managers – may make sense. Human writing, I’m hoping, might hold out a little longer. Humans is certainly very humanly written – by Sam Vincent and Jonathan Brackley, both humans, I think. And it’s a very human show. *** In Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back (BBC2, Sunday), Kevin Bishop gets the voice, the intonation, the wheezy smoker’s laugh and the mannerisms of his subject so spot on that it soon doesn’t matter that he doesn’t look much like him. A spoof doc that follows the interim Ukip leader around after his (third) resignation in July – to the pub, to the man-cave. It’s not actually very funny. Perhaps that is because a good impression alone is no longer enough, or because the mockumentary format is wearing a little thin. Or – and, again, this could be seen as testament to the spot-onness of Bishop’s performance – it could simply be that Nigel Farage isn’t very funny, either. 