The first question of TV drama departments, when presented with a new idea, is what kind of story it is (the correct answer is usually crime or costume). But a new ITV prime-time three-parter challenges categorisation.Him is written by Paula Milne, whose previous credits include soap (Angels), political drama (The Politician’s Husband) and period (The Virgin Queen), but this one fits into no obvious box. The network describes Him as “domestic horror”, but it could also be called marital-supernatural, or science-friction. The 17-year-old hero suffers both a common social situation – divorced parents who have started second families – and a rare one: telekinetic powers, allowing him to take out his anger towards his mum, dad and step-family by menacing them with flying or exploding objects. A one-line pitch might have been “Stephen King meets Joanna Trollope”, but Milne says she thought in terms of character rather than genre: “I think being an adolescent male is a very hard thing; I wanted to write about that anger and confusion. There’s a story about Randy Newman, who had two boys followed by a girl. He was asked about the difference, and he said: ‘Well, if we’d had the girl first, we’d have thought the boys were retarded’. I’ve always loved that.” Challenging the modern doctrine that there is no real difference between sons and daughters, Milne also questions the view (often promoted after a marriage break-up) that shared access can be accomplished without too much damage to the children or guilt for the adults. When someone asks the boy in the drama, “how are things at home?” he replies: “Which one?”  The twice-divorced Milne says: “Him is based on one of my sons. He knows, and is fine with it. I do feel guilt about the second divorce because I think I was very unforgiving. I also think I had cause. But with the children, it was awful watching them going through the upset and unhappiness, especially with the boys not being able to talk about it. ‘Are you okay?’ ‘Fine’. So I have drawn on that.” Although not directly a horror story, Him shares with genre classics, including Rosemary’s Baby and The Omen, a sense of the sinister possibilities of fertility. The boy has one baby step-sibling and his step-mother has another two on the way. Milne, a twin (sister of the documentary-maker Claudia Milne) who herself has twins, says: “I wanted to write about the fear of being replaced or duplicated. It’s a very primal thing for children.” For Milne, the anger-induced superpower of her protagonist, a sort of televisual grandson of The Incredible Hulk, is “a metaphor for the anger in adolescent boys, their struggle to control it.” Even so, she wanted the boy’s gift to be as plausible as an unproven phenomenon can be. Whether writing about NHS nurses in Angels or Elizabeth I in The Virgin Queen, Milne always researches heavily. “With Him, I had a researcher check out telekinesis for me. It was very important to talk to people who take it seriously – paranormal researchers and so on – regardless of whether we believed in it.” The spectrum of British TV dramatists ranges from those most devoted to dialogue (Alan Bennett, Sally Wainwright) to others (Dennis Potter, Russell T Davies) more driven by cinematic image-making. Milne, though neat with speech, acknowledges: “I absolutely think in pictures. I started as an artist, and I still do the slightly wanky thing of getting a huge sheet of art paper and drawing key scenes as I see them.” A frequent tension for screenwriters is that directors don’t like being told what to show, so Milne, over four decades at the keyboard, has developed tactics for collaboration: “Writing the scene descriptions is a great art. You have to put down just so much that you get the scene as you saw it, but not be so prescriptive the director feels creatively frustrated and ignores everything you’ve written.” A recent change Milne has made to her scripts is always to specify when someone is non-white. She accepts the argument of diversity champions such as Lenny Henry that decisions can’t be left to casting directors and must be made by writers. “I always write it into the script now. Although, actually, I was early to that: I did it on Angels.”  On her medical soap, multiracial casting was easier because a diverse workforce was, even in the 1970s, the reality of the NHS. What Milne likes about Him is that race is never a plot-point or ever mentioned in dialogue. As part of an earlier wave of equalisation in the industry, Milne, having resigned as a BBC script editor (“because I couldn’t bring myself to give respect to bosses who hadn’t earned it”), created Angels and was determined not to be the only woman on the writing team: “At the time, there only really were two women writers in TV – Julia Jones and Fay Weldon – and neither was going to be doing my nursing soap. I literally couldn’t find women TV writers, so I brought them in from theatre and radio. I had a deal with the producer that, for every one of his “old lag” men we hired, I got a young woman. As the series went on, eventually it was more than half women.” Milne’s writing apprenticeship was on Coronation Street, where she represented a different minority: “On that, I wasn’t the only woman but I was the only Southerner, which was arguably more isolating. I was in the pub near the studio with Harry Kershaw, who’d written it forever, and I said I was worried. He replied: ‘Well, let’s do the ‘innit’ or ‘intit’ test.’ I said: ‘what do you mean.’ And he said: ‘The weather is good today – innit or intit?’ I had a 50% chance of getting it right, so I said ‘intit?’ And he said: ‘You’ll be fine’.” On the soap, writers were required to provide a cliffhanger or tantalising line going into the commercial break, and a pick-up coming out of it. When writing for commercial channels, Milne still structures her scripts around ad-breaks, but the rhythms of TV are changing, with ever more drama being binge-watched. So will screenwriters become less reliant on cliffhangers and recaps? “That’s an interesting question,” she says. “I haven’t really thought about it. But yes, I’ve just written a series that doesn’t use recaps. So, yes, I was much more conscious that people might be watching three or four hours in one go.” As well as changes in viewing patterns, the sort of drama that she has mainly written – shows to be watched weekly on terrestrial television – is, she accepts, demographically threatened too: “The ages of the audiences are terrifying. 60s on BBC1, 70s on BBC2. Those viewers need serving, but the problem is that the under-35s simply aren’t watching terrestrial TV. When I did The Virgin Queen, they were convinced young viewers would watch because one of the actors had been in a series the young watched. I argued that it didn’t work like that … and it didn’t. Even my own kids were saying: ‘Mum you’re not still writing that bloody costume thing, are you?’ I supported the idea of BBC3 going online only, because at least it meant younger people watch it.” Him starts on ITV at 9pm on 18 October. 