Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
18:29
 Anyone who feared that the Ukip leadership contest would get dull following the withdrawal of Raheem Kassam will be relieved after that: with John Rees-Evans, Ukip’s reputation for eccentricity is in safe hands. He fared badly this afternoon, but Paul Nuttall, the clear favourite, Suzanne Evans, the most assured media performer, and Peter Whittle all got through the debate without difficulty. There was no clear winner, but equally nothing happened to challenge the view that Nuttall will be most popular with Ukip members. (Evans was good, but she doesn’t sound much like a proper Kipper.) Here are two of the key news lines. I didn’t think it was racist, but I don’t like it. I think it was insensitive and ill-judged. But Nuttall defended it. The point behind that poster was absolutely correct. We do need to get control of our borders and there is a deluge of people coming from the Middle East and the European Union’s idea of a common asylum policy certainly isn’t the right route to go down.  If you look at the hate crime figures, they did not go up substantially ... There has been a slight rise but - I’ve spoken to the police about this - that happens after any national event. This is nothing out of the ordinary. The rise hasn’t been that substantial. And Whittle said that hate crime had been going up anyway. He added: The only point I would make is that in July, after the Brexit vote, actually a huge amount of hate crime was more related to the terrorist attacks that were happening at the time.  That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. 
18:05
 Q: Do you support the death penalty? Nuttall says he would for some crimes, like killing children. But it is Ukip policy to have a referendum on it if enough people call for one. Evans says she is strongly opposed to one and always has been, and the Stefan Kiszko case clinched it for her. Rees-Evans says he would back the death penalty for people who kill children, and paedophiles convicted for preying on children under the age of 12. And that’s it. The LBC hustings is over. I will post a summary soon. Updated
18:01
 Q: Do you favour Trump or Clinton? Evans says she would work with whoever won. Nuttall says if he were American, he would probably vote for the Libertarian candidate. He does not like either Trump or Clinton. Rees-Evans says one thing in Trump’s favour is that he is not in anyone’s pocket. Whittle says Clinton is “deeply unsavoury”. With Trump he thinks “right cause, wrong man”. 
18:00
 Q: Putin may have expansionist ambitions. And he may be a sociopath. Does he pose a threat? Whittle says Putin is a “pretty unsavoury character”. There is an expansionist impluse there. But there is in the EU too. Q: Do you admire him? No, says Whittle. Rees-Evans says he does not really have an opinion about him. Evans says Putin is someone who needs careful handling. Nuttall says he agrees with Evans. But Russia is not the biggest threat facing the country. It is Islamic extremism. 
17:57
 Evans says the UK security services have suggested that terrorists could be coming to Europe posing as refugees. Q: What do you think of David Davies’s proposal for dental checks of child refugees? Evans says she was angry when she saw child refugees coming to the UK. There are children in the UK who are not being looked after properly. She says it is reasonable to check their ages. 
17:54
 Q: Are migrants in Calais a threat to the UK? Rees-Evans said he recently went to Calais. His investigation was on Bulgarian TV. He says many migrants there have sold their homes. They spend £10,000 or £11,000. There are genuine refugees, he says. He spoke to 39 refugees. But he thinks only three or four of them were genuinely fleeing for their lives. Q: Is it true you have some bunker in Bulgaria? Rees-Evans says he has 10 acres there. His wife likes organic food, and they can grow their own food on their land. 
17:51
 Q: Do you want Nigel Farage to stay involved? Evans says she would like him to stay involved. She would like him to be an elder statesman, someone she could consult. That is how she used to work with him. It would be like Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon, she says. Whittle says she would like Farage to stay involved. Rees-Evans says, if you do not like Farage, you can vote for Nuttall, because Nuttall and Evans both favour shunting Farage off into the Lords. Nuttall says he has worked with Farage for years. Farage should become the honorary president of the party. And, if he wants a peerage, he should get one. After 2019 Farage won’t be an MEP, he points out. 
17:49
 Rees-Evans says he wants to introduce direct democracy into the party. Evans says that is not the case. She wrote the party manifesto. You cannot make policy like this, he says. Rees-Evans says that illustrates the problem. She does not trust members. Nuttall says the last time something like this was tried was when Labour wrote its manifesto in 1983. He implies Rees-Evans’ idea won’t work. 
17:44
 Q: Can you persuade me Ukip is not racist? Nuttall says Ukip is the only party that has a blanket ban on anyone who has been a member of the BNP joining. Just because you want to control immigration that does not make you a racist, he says. 
17:43
 Evans says she did not approve of the anti-immigrant poster released during the campaign. She tells the Spanish caller she has a beautiful voice. 
17:42
 Rees-Evans says the media are partly to blame. The media accuse Ukip of being racist. And so, after the vote to leave, genuine racists thought that people who voted to leave the EU were also racist. The media needs to consider its responsibility, he says. 
17:41
 Whittle says the London assembly has looked at this. Hate crime has been going up for some time anyway, he says. And he says that the increase over the summer was linked to terrorist attacks taking place at the same time. Q: But why would people abuse a Spanish woman over terrorism? Whittle says these people do not make that distinction. 
17:39
 Q: I am a Spanish national. How responsible to you feel for the fact that I have been verbally abused since the referendum. Nuttall says he is very sorry for what has happened to the female caller. But he is not responsible. Brexit is a great thing, he says. He says the government should repeal the European Communities Act. Q: But many EU nationals have experienced the same thing. Nuttall says the hate crime figures did not go up “substantially” after the referendum. But both sides pushed the boundaries. Q: How? Well, the £350m a week claim, Nuttall says. Q: What about the Ukip anti-immigrant poster issued on the day Jo Cox was killed. Nuttall says that poster was correct. The UK does need to get control of its borders. But he says EU nationals should not feel under threat. They will not be asked to go home. Q: Do you accept there has been an increase in hate crime? Nuttall says there has been a slight rise in hate crime. But this kind of thing happens after every national event. 
17:31
 Q: Would Ukip benefit by having a woman as leader? Not necessarily, says Rees-Evans. He says he employs 800 people, and he does not employ them for their gender. Whittle says he does not think this is relevant. He did not stand for London mayor on the basis of being gay. Evans says she does not think gender should matter. Nuttall also says he does not think gender should be a factor. Updated
17:28
 Q: Is Douglas Carswell a force for good in Ukip? He can be, says Nuttall. Nuttall says if he becomes elected leader, he will see all Ukip’s parliamentarians and try to get them to work together. Whittle says a recent book (The Brexit Club, by Owen Bennett) says Carswell joined Ukip to undermine Nigel Farage. He says this needs to be addressed. Carswell has not commented on this, he says. Evans says she has worked with Carswell. He did not join the party to undermine Farage. He says having an MP in the party is a big asset. Rees-Evans says Carwell criticised Farage at a time when the party needed unity. Q: So we are not allowed to criticise the leader? Rees-Evans says people should criticise what the leader does, not who they are. 
17:24
 Whittle says he was Ukip’s candidate for London mayor. He is gay, he says. He was the only gay mayoral candidate. He says they are talking about an obscure topic. Rees-Evans says this is not an obscure matter. They are talking about liberty of conscience. Updated