 Marat Safin got to No1 in the ATP Champions Race by reaching the final of the Masters Series here, suggesting he had stopped losing patience and smashing rackets.  Yesterday Safin lost the final, lost his patience and smashed his racket. His Saturday resolution had always sounded too good to be true but his undoing was even worse than the scoreline indicates. Safin's 6-1, 6-3, 6-4 defeat by Roger Federer not only confirmed the 20-year-old Swiss as the most complete young all-round player in the game; it deflated the Russian's self-belief.  "I wasn't nervous, just pissed [off]," the punctured Safin said. "It looks ridiculous when I am No1 in the world and I do this. It's sad but it's true."  Safin started by carting forehands all over the place, continued by losing his serve three times in a row, recovered briefly by moving further back, slowing it down and rallying more but fell limply away again after gaining a break-back in the third set. He ended in an orgy of muttered recriminations and head jerking.  The racket mangling came as he went a set and a break down and was followed by an air shot with the replacement. Federer, a former racket smasher himself, once said how funny he finds it when others freak out.  "You know they are going to lose," he grinned. Even first-time viewers of the Safin psyche knew on this occasion it was in permanent turmoil.  Safin's explanations for the disaster ranged from Federer liking his game to being too tall (6ft 4in) to play well on clay. Federer, himself 6ft 1in, does indeed like the ball coming at him like an express train and for a set and a half he was excellent.  When the Swiss was made to rally with Safin, he did so effectively but was always looking to break it up with slices and approaches.  "I find it incredible what has happened," Federer said. "I lost my first 11 matches on the tour on clay, played badly here before and in Monte Carlo and in Rome, felt negative coming into the tournament and never thought I would take a title on this surface."  Federer said that, despite losing his way in the second and early third set, it was the best match of his career "because it was in a final".  Federer is an honest man, for a professional talking about his own game. He even offered pleasantly naive explanations of the blip. "At 6-1, 5-1, you think 'How am I going to celebrate?' and 'What am I going to say?'"he said. "These things come into your mind. You just can't help it."  Until Federer does he will be some way from the finished article. But on grass at Wimbledon, he will be one to watch. 