 After slaying the Belarussian they call the Beast here yesterday, Tommy Haas will once more be expected to step into the shoes of a legend. But while his 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 victory over Max Mirnyi makes him the first German winner of a Masters Series event since Boris Becker here five years ago, nobody outside Germany should be taken in by that.  Qualifying for next month's year-end finals for the first time is the extent of Haas's hopes for now. Two titles in two weeks, a back-hand stroked well enough to make it talk and a leapfrog over Pete Sampras, Sebastien Grosjean and Tim Henman into seventh place in the Champions Race ratings have certainly fuelled those ambitions.  But it is Mirnyi who has had his horizons adjusted in the past week. The man whose unflattering nickname derives from his eyeballs-out, net-charging style has made the year's most remarkable breakthrough. True, he lost the most one-sided of all Masters Series finals yesterday but after eight singles and four doubles matches in nine days, requiring a total of more than 22 hours on court, this was not entirely surprising. He was almost exhausted.  But during this incredible stint Mirnyi beat four grand slam winners in a row and recovered from match point down in three matches. As far as ATP files show, both of these achievements may be records. More important, he has lifted himself from being a qualifier in most major events to a ranking in the 20s, and that should earn him seedings in grand slams.  At the age of 24, though, you had wondered whether it was too late for him, but not Mirnyi. "It was more exciting than difficult", he said, slightly blase about his triumphs over Gustavo Kuerten, Goran Ivanisevic, Sampras and Yevgeny Kafelnikov. "I never had any doubt about myself. Whether it was going to be this week or last year or this year I wasn't going to change my habits. I guess it was just a matter of time."  A cherry-red shirt matches his fiery-looking racket, a 6ft 5in frame gives a steep angle to a walloping serve, and long arms make him seem like an octopus at the net. Add a willingness to swarm forward and a stoic self-belief, and long ago Mirnyi should have been a Wimbledon contender. "If I do this successfully, it's going to produce results", he said. But until now life's unpredictability has conspired against it.  Mirnyi left Belarussia after the break-up of the Soviet Union and money was in short supply. On tour he took his father Nikolai with him as coach. Although the Wimbledon mixed doubles title came along three years ago, too much time has been spent with limited aims, playing doubles to increase his income.  "Coaching is just a small portion of what we have between us," he says of his father. "I owe him a lot because if it weren't for him I wouldn't be sitting here now." But today Mirnyi is $228,000 (£159,150) richer. He can afford to pay his dues and play for himself.  Haas, who stopped Lleyton Hewitt's bid to become world No1 here, may now actually find things harder. He is not ready to challenge for such an accolade himself, and he has somehow to limit public expectations which in Germany can be such a burden.  The education process began immediately yesterday. "Every time I talk to the press they tell me I'm at 10 or I'm at eight or something," he said.  "I don't know how many points I am ahead (of the season-end finals cut) and I don't want to know. I just want to play my best in the last two tournaments. There are a lot of guys contending."  One of them, despite a fall to 10th place, is Henman. Although his narrow loss to Haas on Friday was a blow, the British No1 is still only 35 points behind. Meanwhile Sampras, in eighth place, has decided his "dead arm" is too bad and has quit the race and flown home, and Andre Agassi may follow. A back door to the finals may be beckoning. 