Remain’s high-profile campaigners concentrated on urban areas across UK while leave focused on rural and suburban England • Sign up for our EU referendum news alerts for Android phones 
Pamela Duncan, 
Pablo Gutiérrez and 
Helena Bengtsson 
 The leave campaign has covered more of provincial and rural England in its efforts to persuade Britons to quit the EU, while the remain side has concentrated on urban centres.  Analysis by the Guardian, which pinpoints campaign stops made by four prominent campaigners on either side of the debate in the five weeks to 16 June, shows the leave side has largely ignored Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, while the remain camp has been absent in a large swath of eastern England. For the analysis the Guardian looked at the itineraries of four campaigners on the remain side: prime minister David Cameron, chancellor George Osborne, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and shadow first secretary of state Angela Eagle and, on the leave side, Conservative MPs Boris Johnson and Michael Gove, Ukip leader Nigel Farage and Labour MP Gisela Stuart. It also shows that both sides have, in the main, chosen to campaign in areas broadly supportive of their respective views. In north-west England, for example, the remain campaigners have concentrated on the larger urban centres, Liverpool and Manchester, both of which are rated “relatively Europhile” by YouGov. The prominent leave campaigners instead chose to concentrate their campaigns further north, in locations including Darwen, Nelson, Preston and Clitheroe. The prominent remain campaigners have been mainly absent in a large triangle of England stretching throughout the East Midlands to Peterborough, Norfolk and Suffolk, an area which has been the preserve of the leave campaign. The four named campaigners on the leave side have been mainly absent outside England, excluding a visit by Nigel Farage in late May. Although the remain side has also concentrated its efforts in England, George Osborne travelled to both Northern Ireland and the Scottish borders while Jeremy Corbyn campaigned in Aberdeen in mid-June.  The chancellor also visited in Porthmadog and Criccieth in west Wales while both Cameron and Corbyn have campaigned in Cardiff in the run-up to Thursday’s referendum vote. Central London has, unsurprisingly, been home to a cluster of speeches, rallies and photo opportunities. Slightly further afield in the London suburbs the big-name Brexiters have tended to campaign in the eastern suburbs, including Dagenham and Bexley, while those on the remain side have concentrated on western suburbs. Of course, concentrating on the better-known figures in this campaign does not tell the whole picture: battle buses from both sides have travelled further and wider than their high-profile leaders.  A good example is the Labour In bus, which has spent much of the past six weeks traversing the country. Meanwhile, grassroots campaigns have popped up in various locations across the UK. The exclusion of TV and radio appearances, meanwhile, disadvantages those campaigners who favour broadcast appearances; a good example being Michael Gove, who has made several TV appearances which are excluded from this analysis.  Although the Guardian contacted each of the named campaigners for their campaign schedules, they were not forthcoming. Each campaign schedule was compiled using the Press Association daily schedule, the Guardian EU Referendum morning briefing and analysis of events recorded in the photographic press wires between 9 May and 16 June. The itineraries were then checked against the individual campaigner’s Twitter feed if available. TV, radio and online appearances, debates and events unrelated to the EU referendum were excluded from the analysis. 