When we last saw the hapless occupants of Car 72, No Activity’s detectives Hendy (Patrick Brammall) and Stokes (Darren Gilshenan), the pair had completely cooked it, rushing in late to the long-awaited drug raid because they’d been too busy enjoying a hot coffee in the squad car outside. As the second season of Stan’s original comedy series begins, not much has changed: this time Hendy and Stokes are parked outside the house of a rich couple (Damon Herriman and Rose Byrne) who’ve been reported missing, occasionally checking in with dispatch officers April and Carol (Harriet Dyer and Genevieve Morris).  There is a pair of new ne’er-do-wells in Neddy and Steve (Anthony Hayes and Chum Ehelepola), the kidnappers in charge of the rich hostages, and new members of the force, too: Kim Gyngell as old-dog detective, Rainer, and Susie Youssef as dispatch officer and roller derby nut Anousha.  No Activity was one of the sly delights of 2015, a largely improvised series that at times approached the transcendent quality of Jacobean farce (particularly Dan Wylie and David Field’s pair of crims, the latter of whom dreamed of opening an “art cafe”). It’s a particular joy to watch Gilshenan, one of Australian theatre’s keenest comedic wits, back his awkward character into a variety of emotional corners. In its second season (we were given access to the first three episodes), the show continues to revel in the mundanely ridiculous: the kidnappers discussing a bonding exercise involves spit-roasting a flamingo; Hendy’s recollection of a girlfriend’s family’s nude water Olympics, delivered with just a hint of PTSD; or an inane FM radio snippet: “In breaking news, the eel at the centre of the Burroughs sex scandal has died. Stay with us now for a Robert Palmer double-play!” But just as the best farce occasionally takes a moment to breathe, it’s the here-and-there moments of sincerity that really make No Activity sing. Hayes’s kidnapper has a beautiful monologue about how an elderly sex worker helped revive his loveless marriage, and it’s as good as anything on the Australian big screen. Although No Activity is at the crest of a wave in terms of original content created for Australian streaming services (Stan’s other offering is the Wolf Creek standalone series), its creation echoes the bold decisions being made for the online market by the national broadcasters. These shows are relatively cheap to make, which invites far greater creative experimentation than the constraints of network television have typically allowed. Aunty Donna and Fancy Boy’s work for ABC iView springs to mind, as does SBS commissioning YouTube star Michael Shanks’s Wizards of Aus. With three major players in the streaming market (“subscription video on demand”, or SVOD) in Stan, Netflix and Foxtel’s Presto, it’s not a stretch to wonder whether the film and TV industry here will react in the same way it has in the US and UK, with noted film-makers deserting cinema in favour of small-screen streaming, as they have at Netflix and Amazon. Despite the success of No Activity, and overseas interest in Wolf Creek, the jury is still out. With far fewer subscribers – as of June, Stan has 332,000 subscriptions and Presto 142,000 compared with Netflix’s 1,878,000 according to research by Roy Morgan – Stan and Presto perhaps lack the bargaining power of their American-owned counterpart, which makes their forays into original content all the more impressive. Presto had some success with a Home and Away offshoot, which was popular enough to warrant the commission of two more one-shots, as well as Matilda Brown and Bryan Brown’s series, Let’s Talk About. As for new original content, Stan will be filming a series of comedy specials in Melbourne later this year. And what of the elephant in the living room? Thus far, Netflix Australia has been content to import Netflix-created content from its overseas arms. Netflix’s chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, has said he would “absolutely” be open to Australian-made series and films: “Australia has such a rich production infrastructure and great talent, both in front of, and behind, the camera. There’s no reason we would not [commission] original shows for Australia.” As anyone who has plumbed the depths of Netflix’s original content selection will tell you, quantity doesn’t necessarily equal quality, so perhaps for the time being we’re better off enjoying the relative dearth of original SVOD content. There’s not much of it, but it’s pretty bloody good.  • Season 2 of No Activity is streaming on Stan now 