 There were many moments when it was impossible to distinguish which team were the associates. When Asghar Stanikzai or Mohammad Nabi were batting for Afghanistan there was a power and a presence that one or two of the “big” sides in this tournament would welcome in their middle order. Later when the two new balls were in the hands of the Zadrans, Dawlat and the giant Shapoor, there was sufficient menace to dismiss both the Sri Lankan openers for golden ducks.  So far for entertainment and drama in this tournament do not follow the money; follow the associates. In the end the Sri Lankans, lacklustre at the start of both innings, prevailed by four wickets with 10 balls to spare – but it was a far from straightforward victory. Without the imperious Mahela Jayawardene, who hit a century, and a frenetic late flurry from Thisara Perera – 47 from 26 balls – they would surely have lost.  Cloud hung over the delightful University Oval at the start and for a moment one was pining for the roof that permanently covers the rugby stadium across the road to be transported over the square. Angelo Mathews was delighted to win the toss and bowl but his smile did not last for long.  There was not much venom from his opening bowlers; a catch was spilt at second slip and the Afghans’ progress, although never entirely serene, was steady enough all the way to the second powerplay. By then Stanikzai had hit a run-a-ball half- century punctuated with strokes of startling power. Early on a pull drive off Mathews flew high into a distant temporary stand, where Jamie Gough, a physiotherapist clad in the requisite orange T-shirt, nonchalantly held one of those lucrative one-handed catches.  The captain, Nabi, clearly a class act, also oozed authority. However, from the second powerplay, which began after 35 overs with the score at 169 for four, the innings lost its impetus. With his first indiscretion Nabi heaved and missed against Lasith Malinga and thereafter Afghanistan could only stutter to 232.  After half an hour of the Sri Lankan innings that seemed more than enough. Lahiru Thirimanne was lbw to the first ball bowled by Dawlat Zadran. Then Tillakaratne Dilshan nicked his first delivery from Shapoor Zadran. Kumar Sangakkara tried to suggest imperial indifference to Sri Lanka’s plight but this was unconvincing since he almost managed to run himself out twice in 10 minutes. On both occasions a direct hit would have left him out of the picture.  Now Hamid Hassan entered the fray with his coloured headband and painted face. He charged in from around the wicket at Sangakkara and soon clattered his middle stump. Not long after he persuaded Dimuth Karunaratne to edge to slip, confirming that this trio of Afghan pace bowlers looked the equal of several long-established pacemen in the competition. This impression was briefly threatened when Hassan had problems with his left boot. What did he do? He beckoned his fast bowling colleague, Shapoor, and they swopped left boots until the end of the over. Gnarled old pros would have halted proceedings for 10 minutes while a 12th man delivered a selection of replacement footwear.  Now Sri Lanka were indebted to Jayawardene, who apart from a few dodgy calls, played a wonderful, princely, non-violent innings. This is his last tournament and he does not want to depart before the quarter-finals. Mathews was far less fluent but he clung on as harassed captains tend to do. After adding 126 with Jayawardene, Mathews was run out trying to steal a single. In the next over Jayawardene glided the ball straight to third man. Then Sri Lanka were indebted to Perera alongside a passive Jeevan Mendis. They conjured the requisite 55 runs in seven overs.  Jayawardene acknowledged afterwards that Sri Lanka had “dodged a bullet”; Mathews admitted that his side needed to improve very quickly. Meanwhile, Afghanistan, despite losing the game, had won a host of new friends. 