A range of products is adapting the craze for (human) wearable health tech to help log activity and set fitness goals for animal companions Jared Lindzon 
 Rigorous exercise and dieting appeared to have failed to help Whisky shed some of his excess weight and Betsy Fore knew she had to do something. So she fashioned a hardware-stuffed bowtie for her terrier’s collar and set about tracking the activity of her portly pooch. Now she’s hoping an army of dog lovers will follow suit. Armed with her doggy data Fore got to work on an exercise plan. “Over the course of about a month he actually began losing weight, and so I thought surely he couldn’t be the only one,” she said of her pup, who she likened to Toto from the Wizard of Oz. “It turns out over half the dogs in the UK, US and Canada are considered overweight or obese, resulting in a decreased life expectancy.” Health tracking apps are big business – for humans. Fitbit – arguably the leading brand name in wearable health tech – went public this week at a price that valued the company at $4.1bn. The popularity of health trackers has not been lost on techie pet lovers. Fore is now the founder and CEO of Wondermento, the creators of WonderWoof, a bowtie that provides owners with real-time information about their dog, such as whether they’re sleeping, walking or playing with other dogs. Like many fitness trackers already on the market for humans, WonderWoof creates fitness goals based on weight, age and, in the dogs’ case, breed, encouraging more exercise on lazy days and praising physical achievements.  Users can log on to the free application to connect with other pet owners in the network and track their dog’s progress by manually inputting its activity, or purchase one of the stylish, fitness-tracking bowties for $99.  Fore says that she has struggled to keep up with demand since launching the product at the Consumer Electronics Show in January, adding that female pet owners are the primary drivers of her sales, accounting for approximately 80% of her customer base.  WonderWoof is just one of hundreds of products recently introduced into the quickly growing market of connected devices for pets. According to IDTechEx, an emerging technologies market research firm, the market will reach $2.6bn by the year 2025. Some might even consider that a conservative estimate, considering that Americans spent $55.7bn on their animals alone in 2013, $14.3bn of which was spent on veterinary care, and another $13.1bn on supplies.  Dedicated pet owners can already choose from a plethora of connected devices to ease the burdens of pet ownership and enhance the connection between human and animal, including health monitors like Wonderwoof, GPS trackers, smartphone-based training tools, remote-controlled camera and laser-pointer systems, and ultrasonic dog bark collars.  “The biggest advantage that pet wearables and connected pet devices have are the owners; people will go to great lengths to stay in touch with and keep an eye on and take care of their pets, and that driving force is more than enough to propel this industry to huge heights,” said Zoran Grabovac, the cofounder of PetBot – a connected device that provides two-way audio and video interaction between pets and owners. When PetBot goes on sale this summer the $200 device will use facial recognition software to identify the animal, play a sound to call out to it, dispense a treat, and then send a “pet selfie” of the pup enjoying their snack back to the owner. “People increasingly don’t just want to touch or speak to their devices, they want to be spoken back to, they want to hear the other side as well,” said Grabovac. “As more people demand that, more people in this industry will develop things that allow for two-way interaction, and much more rich interactivity than what’s currently available.”  As the industry of connected devices for pets continues to develop it also has the potential to enable significant progress in animal health, treatment and understanding. While clinical studies of pets and animals have historically been limited in size, scale and budget, fitness trackers and other devices are providing new and extensive bodies of data for veterinarians and animal health professionals to draw from.  “We’re creating, from our existing users, a baseline for all the breeds, for all the various dog sizes, for all the various age ranges, and all of this information was never available before,” said Davide Rossi, the co-founder and CEO of FitBark, a real-time activity monitor for dogs.  Rossi explains that the data points provided by the $99 devices are crucial for understanding basic information about pets. For example, if an owner comes home to find that their dog is exhausted, they can use the app to determine how much sleep and exercise they’ve had that day, how that compares with other dogs of their age, size and breed, and infer whether the dog is simply tired or potentially sick.  “We wanted to create a tool that would improve communication between the dog and its owner,” said Rossi. “It was a reaction to my personal frustration of not being able to answer the question, ‘how’s my dog doing today?’”  Rossi adds that the company is also working with pet care professionals and veterinary institutions to monitor pets following treatment.  “We’re doing a few pilots in the areas of helping veterinarians and animal pharmas validate new products,” said Rossi. “We make it possible to monitor if a product that you’re using for improving that condition is actually working or not. It’s a tool to understand if a dog has had a good night of sleep or not, because if they woke up many times it could be because they’re in pain.” Rossi believes that by monitoring and analyzing animal activity, connected products like FitBark are establishing a completely new level of understanding, interaction and connection between pets and their owners. We’ll probably never know what the pets think. 