 Round 14 was the most compelling of this season so far. Like a five-chapter novella it twisted and turned throughout the weekend, bristling with energy and the unexpected. The five matches built to different crescendos but all shared one trait vital to compelling sport. No game was out of reach of either protagonist until the final stages. At one extreme there was Melbourne Victory’s last minute equaliser. At the other Sydney FC finally shutting down Newcastle Jets with just 10 minutes still to play. Smack bang in the sweet spot there was Melbourne City’s thrilling victory over Western Sydney Wanderers. The round conforms to a theory proposed by a team of economists from the University of Chicago. In a journal article titled Suspense and Surprise they attempt to explain the optimum conditions for compelling drama. The argument follows that drama is most impactful when the onlooker cannot confidently predict what’s going to happen next (suspense), and is then genuinely surprised as the plot is revealed. The opening match of the round was a surprise party. It was surprising to see Harry Ascroft head the opener, jolting to witness Josh Bingham double the Central Coast Mariners’ lead, and stupefying to watch Mitch Austin wheel away in celebration as the Simonds Stadium scoreboard read 3-0 before half-time. Thereafter it was a clinic in suspense. Champion sides like Victory do not baulk at a challenge and from Besart Berisha’s penalty the comeback had a sense of inevitability about it. Still, the chances that went begging after Archie Thompson made it 3-2 only heightened the tension around the unfamiliar venue and piqued the outpouring of emotion when Berisha finally equalised to spare the premiers’ blushes. The authors of Suspense and Surprise, Jeffrey Ely, Alexander Frankel, and Emir Kamenica, address sporting narratives in their paper. Specifically, what a sport optimised for dramatic effect would look like. Conveniently, they are advocates for football as a starting point. This is due to the comparatively high value and the relative rarity of a goal forcing supporters into a state of near permanent suspense. It is impossible to take your eyes off a close game for fear of missing something critical. The improvement suggested for heightened dramatic effect is the implementation of a “next goal wins” endpoint so that all matches are at stake until the final whistle, in a permanent mode of attack versus defence. Which brings us neatly to Melbourne City’s duel with Western Sydney Wanderers. City raced into a two goal lead with such brio it was hard to imagine they were held scoreless by the Wanderers just eight rounds previously. A rare Thomas Sørensen error opened the door for a Wanderers comeback, and the luckless Aaron Hughes brought parity to the occasion with half-an-hour remaining. Thereafter it was next goal wins, and the matchwinner would surely come from a Wanderers boot. Tony Popovic’s outfit seemed an irresistible force, dominating possession, peppering Sørensen’s goal and finding space at will behind the City defence. Unfortunately for the visitors the last time they made the net bulge the referee intervened decisively. In the 80th minute a quickly-taken Dimas free-kick was finished with aplomb by Mark Bridge. The set-piece appeared to be struck with the referee’s consent but before the travelling supporters had time to lock arms in a celebratory Poznan a second whistle pierced the Melbourne night, reprieving City. Jarred Gillett explained his actions afterwards, and deserves credit for doing so. However, his explanation reveals only that he incorrectly restarted play. The Wanderers have every right to feel harshly treated. “I originally called Patrick Kisnorbo out of position to manage the original situation,” Gillett told Fox Sports. “After doing so I restarted playing while the assistant referee was telling me not to restart because Kisnorbo wasn’t in position and therefore they were disadvantaged. The fair thing to do was to restart from the free-kick.” At the time it seemed not to matter as the Wanderers were surely destined to find a winner. Harry Novillo had other ideas. Suspense and Surprise illustrates how City’s victory was an example of prime dramatic plot development. The authors’ research led them to believe the optimum number of plot twists in a story is three. This game saw City sprint out of the blocks, the Wanderers slowly seize the ascendancy (twist one), the referee deny the by now expected outcome (twist two) before Novillo finally drills home the unanticipated resolution (twist three). On the subject of scriptwriting, Saturday’s earlier match lacked the ebbs and flows of what was to follow but Sydney FC’s routine 2-0 victory over the worryingly impotent Jets contained one of the season’s most heartwarming storylines. Ali Abbas had not played an A-League match for 405 days since injuring his knee but bounded from the substitutes’ bench to drill home the clincher and trigger emotional scenes at ANZ Stadium. “It couldn’t have been scripted better,” Graham Arnold said afterwards. Ordinarily a match featuring Adelaide United’s return to freescoring form, an away win in Perth, and a controversial first half red card, would combine for a fixture deserving of top billing. Not this week. United are a team rapidly on the rise though and their first appearance in the top six this season is well deserved. Alex Grant’s dismissal will generate the most column inches but the legacy of this match may well prove to be Adelaide’s first half equaliser. All season Guillermo Amor’s side have looked competent in possession but directionless up front. On 27 minutes everything clicked and some sumptuous passing and movement on the edge of the Glory box resulted in Sergio Cirio beating Ante Covic. This goal was peak Adelaide and a warning to the rest of the competition that despite a slow start to the campaign there remains abundant quality in the United camp. Brisbane Roar’s trip to Wellington Phoenix may have lacked the goals of other matches in the round but it contained its fair share of drama nonetheless. Not least another pivotal refereeing decision that saw a Roar penalty award reversed during a confusing first half incident. Both teams had good chances to win at the death but the stalemate prevailed. The point was enough to send Brisbane clear at the top of the ladder. 