Judith Mackrell 
 “Gene Kelly,” says Christopher Wheeldon, “was one of the reasons I first wanted to dance. Of all those MGM stars, he was my favourite. I loved him in An American in Paris.” Now the choreographer is in Paris himself, staging a new version of the movie for the Théâtre du Châtelet. And he admits that when he first arrived in the city, he made a pilgrimage to the exact spot by the Seine where Kelly and his co-star Leslie Caron had their great love scenes. “I needed to see it for myself,” he says, “and I sent my actors there, too. It makes such a difference to be working on this in Paris, to soak up the atmosphere where it all takes place.” But, as loyal a fan as Wheeldon is, and as much as it mattered to find the exact lamppost and the exact steps where Kelly kissed Caron, his production is far from being a simple transference from screen to stage. It is now 63 years since the original was made, and for Wheeldon it’s “a perfect, one-of-a-kind period piece. There’s no point attempting a replica.” He’s retained the essentials, of course. His show is still set in Paris just after the second world war, and still tells the story of American artist Jerry whose love for the beautiful, enigmatic Lise is thwarted by other friendships and obligations: Milo the American heiress who has a yen both for Jerry and his art; rich, wannabe singer Henri, whose family sheltered Lise from the Germans; and Adam, the sardonic, Jewish-American pianist and composer. Lovers of the film’s style will be delighted by Bob Crowley’s ingenious shape-shifting designs, which conjure the same Parisian streets, clubs, cafes and romantic river views. The Gershwin score is not only played live but augmented by additional music to which Wheeldon has choreographed the full gamut of dance numbers, from the long, stand-alone ballet in act two to big Broadway ensembles and intimate duets. But, despite the romance, glamour and fizz of his production, Wheeldon has also moved beyond the picture-postcard Paris familiar to fans of the movie, which won six Oscars. The shadow of Nazi occupation falls darkly over certain scenes, with wounded soldiers and beggars on the streets, and accusations of collaboration hanging in the air. “We’ve done a lot of research and we’ve been able to place the story in a far more grounded historical context than was possible in 1950. We can raise issues no one would have dared back then.” Wheeldon and his writer Craig Lucas have also added nuance to the characters. They’ve made explicit the fact that Lise is Jewish; they’ve played with the possibility that Henri is gay (letting it “bubble under the surface” of his awkwardness with Lise); they’ve given Jerry traumatic war memories and Adam a leg injury. They’ve also made the topic of art and creativity much more central. Jerry and Adam argue about whether their work should be escapist or existentially dark; and in one delicious tweak, Adam plays his first version of I’ve Got Rhythm at an angsty, funereal pace, before accepting that it works a whole lot better at a zippy 4/4 beat. Milo has a dash of Peggy Guggenheim in her passion for Picasso and sexy painters; people namedrop Cocteau and Camus; and Lise has been made an aspiring ballerina. “This version,” says Wheeldon, “is very much about how love and art inform each other.” He and Lewis have also added a subplot in which the main characters stage an experimental new ballet at the (fictional) Châtelet Ballet Company. This allows Wheeldon to choreograph several additional dance scenes, but dance is in any case the driving language of the show – a fluid mix of tap, jazz, mime and ballet that links the naturalistic action and the more formal dance numbers. “I think audiences are comfortable with the idea of a dance-driven musical,” says Wheeldon. “These are good times for dance, thanks to shows like So You Think You Can Dance and Strictly.” Of course, there is still singing – even some extra Gershwin songs like Fidgety Feet and I’ve Got Beginner’s Luck – and a lot of new dialogue, much of it funny and fast. For Wheeldon to find a cast who could deliver all these elements, however, was a real issue: he needed performers who could act, sing and dance their way through the sophisticated challenges of his choreography. He admits he didn’t commit fully to this production until he was sure he’d found his two leads. “People who’ve loved Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron will come with such expectations. I had to find a couple who could be our Jerry and Lise, but still have some of that old Hollywood magic.” Jerry is the New York City Ballet principal Robert Fairchild: a dancer with a fine classical technique, but also something of Kelly’s easy grin. “He’s a showman on stage, with that very grounded American theatrical quality. And I always suspected he could sing.” Lise was more elusive. Wheeldon saw hundreds of dancers before he found Leanne Cope, a First Artist with the Royal Ballet. “She’s not got one of those wowzer techniques, but your eye always goes to her. She’s got this beautiful, natural quality that’s perfect for Lise.” Aside from Wheeldon, she’s the only English member of this all-American company (the show is performed in English with French surtitles, which it will lose when it transfers to Broadway in spring). Both Fairchild and Cope have undergone an intensive coaching regime, and Wheeldon is impressed by the talent they have revealed: both bring a rare combination of freshness, spontaneity and energy to the stage. “They’ve been so ballsy,” he says with gratitude. “Neither had ever sung on stage before.” But if Wheeldon had to push his stars beyond their normal range, he admits that – in directing his first musical – he, too, has gone far outside his comfort zone. “When I first started work on this, I was really sweating. I didn’t know how to address the actors, how to block a scene. I realised dancers and actors work in very different rhythms. Dancers are used to delivering instantly. Actors are slower, they like to think about the how and the when and the why. But I’ve got better, and it’s become so interesting.” He felt this difference when he went back to the Royal Ballet to choreograph The Winter’s Tale. “This has been such a period of learning and growth,” he says. “The older you get, the scarier it all becomes. You become so much less confident about everything.” • An American in Paris is at Théâtre de Châtelet, Paris, from 9 December to 4 January; then transfers to Broadway on 13 March. Details: chatelet-theatre.com • Five of the best dance shows based on film 