Monarch Airlines has been granted an eleventh-hour reprieve after a £165m investment from its majority shareholder secured its future. The company had a deadline of midnight on Wednesday to prove to the UK airline industry regulator, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), that it had sufficient funds to stay afloat. Without the cash injection from Greybull Capital, Monarch would have lost its Air Travel Organiser’s Licence (Atol), which allows it to fly package holidaymakers. Andrew Swaffield, chief executive, said: “It is testament to the extensive effort by all parties, over the past weeks and months, that we are able to announce the largest investment in our 48-year history, as well as the renewal of our Atol licences. He said the investment gave Monarch a long-term future at a difficult time for the airline industry.  “We believe the market will remain fairly challenging over the next couple of years, particularly because of terrorism and the weak pound. This capital injection allows us to face these markets with confidence,” Swaffield added. A weak pound is generally bad for UK airlines – which pay for their fuel in dollars, and much of their navigation costs and ground charges in euros. Monarch is expected to roughly break even in the current financial year after making a £19.2m pre-tax profit in 2015. Swaffield said the sharp fall in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote on 23 June had not dampened consumers’ willingness to book foreign holidays. He said many of Monarch’s customers owned properties in Europe, while holidaymakers opting for all-inclusive or half-board stays were partly shielded from currency fluctuations. Swaffield said Monarch was working to a six-year business plan and the equity investment gave the company “more than enough headroom” to satisfy the regulator, as well as its own board and investors.  Uncertainty over Monarch’s future had hit holiday bookings over the past two weeks, he said, but airline bookings were not affected. He added that there were signs things were returning to normal and customers had sent messages of support for the business. The CAA had given Monarch a 12-day extension from the original deadline of 30 September to show it had sufficient funding. It renewed the company’s Atol licences until the end of September 2017 after confirmation that it had met all the necessary requirements. The regulator said: “Monarch’s licences permit them to sell Atol-protected holidays until 30 September 2017, after which they will be required to obtain a new licence.  “The CAA advises consumers to book Atol-protected air holidays to ensure they are protected in the event that their travel company stops trading. In these instances, Atol-protected consumers will be brought home if they are already abroad or receive a refund if yet to travel.” In 2014, Monarch placed an order for 30 Boeing 737 MAX-8 aircraft, with options for a further 15 planes. The first of these aircraft is scheduled for for delivery in 2018. The airline said the new planes would give customers a better inflight experience while allowing the company to make significant operational cost savings. Monarch is based at Luton airport and employs about 2,888 people. 