Nick Roberts, presenter of BBC Introducing in the North East, profiles six of the most interesting artists in his patch ahead of the BBC 6 Music festival on Tyneside this weekend Nick Roberts 
 It’s finally about to happen. After months of planning, the BBC Radio 6 Music Festival lands on Tyneside this weekend. I’m absolutely delighted they’ve chosen Tyneside as their venue. It’s like a closely guarded secret – there’s always so much music happening up here that doesn’t get talked about outside the region. It should. Having all these internationally respected artists on the doorstep will hopefully inspire the next generation. Here are five north-east bands I love. Some are playing the BBC Introducing Stage at the 6 Music Festival By Day on Sunday , but all are definitely ones to watch. Newcastle’s Shields formed back in 2011. They made a load of demos, got a few recorded and had airplay from the likes of Zane Lowe and Huw Stephens on Radio 1. They’ve been locked away working on their debut album for a little while now, only emerging last October for an acoustic BBC Introducing session and for Oxjam Newcastle with an amazing live performance. They recently put out a free download track, Enemy, saying it wasn’t good enough to go on the album. That track has now been played on 6 Music and Radio 1. I can’t wait to hear the album and to see them on the BBC Introducing Stage at the 6 Music Festival. Yellow Creatures have been around on the Newcastle music scene for a year or so now and have produced a couple of very fine EP’s. They’ve been into BBC Introducing in the North East for two sessions now, always bringing in a nice set of instruments for our semi-acoustic set up. The band are big fans of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop, so expect some supersonic sounds, hypnotic garage riffs and haunting Hammer Horror style vocals. Catch them on the BBC Introducing Stage at the 6 Music Festival. Lisbon are a bunch of lads from the coast, Whitley Bay to be exact. We’ve been playing their tracks on BBC Introducing in the North East ever since they uploaded Blue Love about a year ago. It’s a massive tune, was playlisted as Radio 1’s BBC Introducing track of the week and it’s the tune they regularly end their gigs with. They have a really accessible indie pop/dance sound and would be great for the remix market. New tune, I Don’t Know, sounds equally big and has recently been premiered by Huw Stephens on Radio 1. They played the BBC Introducing Stage at T in the Park last year and are about to record a BBC Introducing Maida Vale session for Huw’s show on Radio 1. Jamie Cullum came across Newcastle-based power pop trio Iceni through BBC Introducing. He was so impressed he offered them a support slot on his UK tour at the Sage Gateshead, which is being used by 6 Music this weekend too. They’ve also played the large outdoor stage of the Mouth of The Tyne Festival at Tynemouth Castle. Lindsay also is a highly regarded Jazz singer in the North East, Liz is one of The Cornshed Sisters and, apart from being an amazing drummer, Caroline also performs solo. They’ve done two full electric sessions for BBC Introducing in the North East. The ladies are now working on their debut album.  Twins Daniel and Graeme Ross are originally from Boldon, South Tyneside. Having been in a number of north-east bands they decided to go it alone as a duo. They then ended up spending some time in Chicago and San Francisco, attending and participating in underground gigs where their folkey sound turned distinctively rock. Supercell was a Radio 1 BBC Introducing track of the week and they have a hotly anticipated EP dropping soon. Last summer I was privileged to witness them play an absolutely blinding performance on the BBC Introducing Stage at Glastonbury. Also from Newcastle, Tessera Skies have been around since 2012. Early release, Soliloquy of an Astronaut, was proclaimed Track of the Year by Bella Union’s Simon Raymonde. They have also worked with Newcastle’s Ajimal and earlier this year released a split 12 inch on new Newcastle label, Mono Recordings. The atmospheric Droplet being Tessera’s contribution. They performed with Ajimal on one of the best BBC Introducing North East sessions to date. I’m eagerly awaiting the promised new material in the meantime we’ll be able to catch them on the BBC Introducing Stage at the 6 Music Festival. Nick Roberts is presenter of BBC Introducing in the North East, Saturday 8pm, BBC Newcastle 