One of the biggest cheers at Sony’s 2015 E3 press briefing was for an adventure first released in 1997. Why is gaming so keen to look back? 
 Nostalgia is so hot right now. It is the most powerful force firing the engines of contemporary entertainment. We are enjoying Jurassic World on the big screen, a tour by Nineties shoegazers Ride and TFI Friday is back on Channel 4. Not even video games, that most futuristic of media, have escaped the consumer’s melancholic urge to revisit the past. This was never more evident than during this week’s E3, the annual Los Angeles gathering where game publishers parade their forthcoming titles and promises. Many of those new titles are, in fact, old titles, either repackaged or remade for today. Midway through the rumble and flash of Sony’s press event (held in a vast LA arena on Monday evening), the company showed a trailer for a remake of Final Fantasy VII, the second best-selling game for Sony’s original PlayStation.  Released in 1997, it’s also apocryphally known as the most returned video game of all time; players were reportedly lured in by the visuals then repelled by the mysteries of the Japanese role-playing genre.  But no one in the Sony crowd was thinking about that as they hollered their approval. The short teaser film, accompanied by that familiar tinkling soundtrack, showed no gameplay footage at all. The reality of the game was not a necessary component. The sentimental ante was upped yet further when Yu Suzuki, the former Sega employee and one of the godfathers of the Japanese video game industry, announced a Kickstarter campaign for the final title in his Shenmue trilogy - a game in hiatus for more than a decade.  Backers met the $2m (£1.3m) asking price (a fraction, surely, of what the full game will cost to make – by comparison, the 1999 original cost almost $50m) within a record-breaking eight hours.  There were more announcements. During Microsoft’s event, the company unveiled Rare Replay, a collection of 30 titles collected from the back catalogue of the esteemed, titular British game developer.  Gears of War: Ultimate Edition revisits Epic’s muscle-bound sci-fi shooter. Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection is an anthology of remastered PlayStation 3 games (optimised for 1080p resolution and an improved frame-rate), the oldest of which is less than seven years old. This industrialised repackaging of the past is, in part, a function of the fact that video games are more prone than other media to obsolescence.  With each new generation of hardware and software, scores of titles become unplayable (unless you keep a space for the relevant machine in the overcrowded prime real estate beneath the television).  Publishers allow their old titles to fade into extinction and, in making the past difficult to reach, it becomes mystical and, often, somewhat romanticised.  We remember old games with heightened sense of fondness, perhaps because these were the experiences that defined one particular childhood school holiday, or a fondly remembered relationship.  We want them back like someone might want to rediscover the band they listened to years ago, in order to feel the keenness of adolescent catharsis and adventure again. When access is restricted, as with old video games, the experiences warm in the memory accordingly. Video games are also better suited to remakes, or at least there is more justification than in cinema, where so many reworked RoboCops, Karate Kids or Godzillas merely subtract from the originals.  Video games are still evolving – many developers talk about how we’re barely out of the equivalent of cinema’s silent age. As processors and graphics hardware improve and expand in power, so they are able to better render the crude pixels and polygons of formative games.  Previously voiceless characters can be voiced, the soundtracks can be rerecorded and the games of the past begin to look more like promises that were made for us when they still lurked in the future. This is, however, perilous work. Video games, more than other media, are iterative; sequels usually build upon the foundations of the past, and bring with them technological improvements (if not artistic ones) rather like a television or toaster manufacturer might better its product.  The pure, almost restorative approach as seen in the recent Nintendo 3DS remakes of its seminal N64 Zelda titles - preserving the integrity of the original, keeping its camera angles and pacing, along with the phrasing, while merely introducing brighter, better-rendered polygons - is perhaps the safest route for a developer to take. The brasher angle, which attempts to improve upon the original , risks alienating the audience.  The director of the Final Fantasy VII remake, Tetsuya Nomura (who served as the character designer on the original game) has a particularly difficult task ahead. The game’s aesthetic was a result of its technological constraints as much as anything: the squat, balloon animal-like characters, the unmoving, pre-rendered sets – they are artefacts of the PlayStation’s limits.  With those technological boundaries vanished, the team must build the world anew. Who knows what may be lost in the renovation?  It’s a bind that the developer itself acknowledged in the teaser film. At one point the voice over clumsily pleads: “The reunion at hand may bring joy, it may bring fear, but let us embrace whatever it brings.”  It seems this is now the mantra of a games industry facing a complex future while seeking to cash in on our adoration of the simple past.  