 Tim Henman's days of beating Roger Federer may well be over. The British No1 was handed his worst beating so far by the world No1, lasting only 72 minutes against a steady surge of top spin from both wings, brief but timely flashes of brilliance, and murmurings of indifference from a sun-basking crowd.  Federer's 6-4, 6-2 victory was his third in a row against Henman, carrying him so languidly into the semi-finals of the Nasdaq-100 Open that the odds on his winning back-to-back Masters Series events for the first time must have shortened markedly.  Henman never found his best form. "It was a five-out-of-10 performance today, but if I improve, I can give myself an opportunity to test myself against him again," he said, sounding more in hope than conviction.  There was just one moment when the outcome seemed in doubt. That was when Henman threatened to break back for 4-4, reaching 30-40 after one marvellously constructed rally in which he opened up the court with an audacious half-volley backhand drive down the line, and followed it with a tidy approach and an alertly angled volley winner.  That acted like a prod in the ribs to Federer, who averted the danger like it was a daily chore. He whipped in a second serve of moderate speed but of wonderful accuracy and clever disguise, eliciting a short return which he disposed of as though tossing crumpled-up paper into a bin. This was the way it so often was. Henman worked hard to deny Federer time to swarm all over him, and Federer served solidly without ever playing really well. But then something would happen to rouse him.  The fifth game of the second set, which was when Federer achieved his next break, saw Henman move forward and push the favourite beyond the tramlines. That only served to create a greater angle, into which Federer swept a egg-shaped top-spin winner which lurched downwards and onwards like a starship suddenly achieving warp speed.  "It was difficult to break through," said Henman. "I would like to have had him under a little more adversity - one break point is not a lot. You need to hold serve and put a bit of pressure on him and that's my biggest complaint today.  It was Federer's 45th win in 46 matches since the Olympics. "I am surprised I have had such a great start to the season," he said. "You have to feel well almost every day to come through because almost everyone wants to beat you out there. So it's a surprise even though I know I can do it.  "I consider I am lucky to be so little sick. I remember in the past I had a little fever or a cold but I seem to have come through that. I do wake up on days when I am hurt, but very seldom."  There is certain to be an unexpected finalist, and possibly an exciting new one. Rafael Nadal, the 18-year-old nephew of the Spanish footballer Miguel, last year beat Federer here and now reached the last four by beating Thomas Johansson, the 25th-seeded former Australian Open champion from Sweden.  Vicious, kicking top spin from both wings and a buoyant belief in his ability to convert clay-court skills to slowish hard courts make Nadal a real handful, and his 6-2, 6-4 victory might have been more one-sided than it was. Nadal broke Johansson's serve in the opening game, took five games in a row from 0-1 in the second set, and had 10 unconverted break points.  Just to rub it in, Nadal announced that he has been unwell, and playing his matches with a fever. "There was no time to prepare for this one," he said casually, like a master of the matter-of-fact put-down.  A Spanish finalist is also now certain because Nadal today plays his countryman David Ferrer, who overcame Dominik Hrbaty 6-3, 6-3. It was the improving unseeded 22-year-old's third conquest of a seed. 