 Ubisoft; PC/PS4 (version tested) /Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 12+ Watch the gorgeous promotional CGI sequence after loading up The Crew and you’ll witness what could may be the best driving game ever made.  There is a breathless, beautifully rendered sequence in which a four-car team working in perfect automotive unison eludes the police while snaking through downtown New York traffic, blasting along sprawling American highways, and conquering the rough terrain of the wild west. All this in thrilling vehicles ranging from muscled up V8s to supercars to raid-prepared rides. And all this within a vast world populated by hundreds of online players.  But The Crew isn’t that game.  The real experience, when you get past the rousing CGI advert, is a disappointment. At least until you’ve spent a few good hours in the driving seat.  The immediate disillusionment, particularly for anyone coming to this from Forza Horizon 2 – this generation’s closest competitor to The Crew – are the visuals. There are notable touches, such as the detailed textures covering a downtown lamppost, the sunset over a rocky desert horizon, or the high tree count for most of the game’s wooded areas, but there can also be a functional, almost last-gen feel to the graphics.  Then there’s the handling. The Crew offers three options, ranging from hideously assisted to an erratic but liveable Hardcore mode. As you level up and install upgrades, as well as unlock the other categories of cars, things do improve. But the driving dynamics are simple and the model never engages you in the way that FH2 or even Driveclub does. And at times, particularly during off-road treks, its limitations are painfully apparent – frustrating, in fact, when it causes you to repeatedly fail a mission.  Meanwhile, the narrative, which focuses on your journey as a former street racing gang member looking to avenge your brother’s murder, does little to engross. No one expects characterisation on a par with The Last of Us in a driving game, but what’s on offer here is about as engaging (and predictable) as a drive in a Renault Twingo, with much of the dialogue seemingly lifted from a rejected The Fast & The Furious script.  We could spend the entire review pointing out what’s wrong in The Crew. There’s horrendous rubber-banding in races; police cars keep pace with even the most able of race-spec machinery and appear to draw you in with supernatural magnetic force, making it unfairly difficult to escape arrest; the audio mix is poor, comprehensively failing to convey a powerful engine note, even after you’ve switched off the limited selection of radio tracks; and too often, the course design used for the story-based missions proves uninspiring Want more? Well, the side and rear view mirrors don’t work; the GPS system (cleverly designed to appear in the sky) will often reset itself when playing in coop. You’ll also note framerate wobbles, as well as glitches that violently flip your vehicle for no apparent reason. Player stats seem unable to log properly. The presence of micro transactions jars, as it often does. PvP events can find it difficult to pin down participants – there are often disappointingly few other players in your session. The list goes on.  The Crew’s strength, however, lies not in the show it puts on, but rather the stage it’s set on. If everything’s big in America, then everything is massive in The Crew’s persistent, open-world equivalent. The scale of the play area, which models the full USA (and partly explains the graphical compromises lamented earlier), is such that it takes a while to adjust. You’ll spend the first hour or so disenchanted that everything looks a little brown, a little samey, then you realise that despite all the mileage you’ve put in you’ve yet to leave the Detroit area you start in. Once you do venture further, you soon appreciate how vast and varied the playground you’ve been given is. Weather, landscape, topography, vegetation, wildlife, architecture, even vehicle density (and type) alters convincingly according to your position within these digital United States. Coast to coast, the GPS will map you out a route some 70 miles long – this is a gameworld which makes GTA V feel tiny.  Where Rockstar’s game effortlessly trumps Ubisoft’s, however, is in how that world is conveyed. Despite its astonishing enormity and diversity, The Crew’s environment doesn’t often feel alive. Yes, its over-sized cities boast pedestrians, Michigan farmlands herd cows, you’ll frighten bison on the dusty plains of Texas, power past bears while climbing the Northern Rockies, and try to avoid hitting deer (and tree trunks) in the game’s dense forests, all the while a variety of birds look on from their lofty roosts. Yet the implementation of all this wildlife, as with other aspects of the game, comes across as overly mechanical, artificial – there’s never a moment when things feel truly organic.  What The Crew can boast over its contemporaries is a density of content to match the scale of its playscape. The main 65-mission story will see you take on rival car gangs in an effort to win control of the map’s five main factions – Midwest, East Coast, The South, Mountain States, and West Coast – which obviously serves as a way to get you to experience the wide range of environments available, and pleasingly you can invite up to three friends or nearby strangers to help you out along the way. But that’s just a fraction of what’s available. Hundreds of engaging skill mini-challenges and tempting discoverable points, numerous PvP and Faction events, plus additional community-focused trials keep you constantly busy while working towards maxing your XP (the game’s generous levelling system means that even semi-determined play will hit the Level 50 cap after some 25 hours) and boosting in-game currency. The layers of complexity, although perplexing at first, are ultimately welcome. There’s a fully featured skill tree model (Perks), for instance, which sees you able to improve a number of elements: anything from boosting XP rewards, to increasing your car’s braking efficiency, to reducing the price of tuner parts. You can fast travel to any area you’ve already visited, or use the airports and train stations to get you across the country (for a fee), but the finest way is to simply drive and discover. Not on your own, because there’s very little sense of occasion provided by the game when you do come across world famous landmarks such as, say, Mount Rushmore, Yosemite National Park, or the Hoover Dam. But go exploring with pals and the game takes on a new dimension.  When we took a road trip from New York to LA road trip, the journey was packed with incident. Unexpectedly helping a stranger with their police trouble; the aesthetic reward of swapping the leafy autumnal looks of Washington for the lush pine population of Central Woods; trying (and failing) to forcibly stop a cargo train in New Mexico followed by watching the sunset while perched on the edge of a huge meteor crater. Then, the night we blasted across the straights of Arizona under a blanket of stars; spying LA’s lights while roaring into Laguna Beach; arriving at our destination bathed in dawning sunlight. Not wanting the ride to end, we headed to the Laguna Seca circuit, where a spontaneous race with fellow players took off. It was one of the best play experiences of the year.  The Crew offers these moments of emergent gameplay for those willing to go find them but, tragically, doesn’t have them naturally stitched into its design upholstery. As such, the potential is too often unpicked by the game’s frustrating shortcomings. When it all comes together, and in the right company, what you’re left with is a good American road trip. But it could have been a great one.  