For many, Abel Ferrara will forever be the master provocateur, synonymous with drugs, booze, and tortured Catholicism, obsessed with documenting man’s existential bad faith and tortured quest for redemption, a la Bad Lieutenant. For certain film scholars however, Ferrara is a kind of Van Gogh, a truly visionary artist whose genius is destined to be ignored in his own lifetime. To understand the esteem in which he is held, we should begin at the beginning. Helpfully, this month Arrow Films presents a rerelease DVD package of The Driller Killer, complete with a newly recorded audio commentary by Ferrara, an in-depth interview conducted by Brad Stevens (author of Abel Ferrara: The Moral Vision), and a visual essay on Ferrara by Alexandra Heller-Nicholas, author of Cultographies: Ms. 45. If Ferrara is indeed a Van Gogh, then The Driller Killer is his Potato Eaters – an early work that displays, in rudimentary form, all the groundbreaking innovation of the mature works. Ferrara’s second feature (the first being the exquisitely titled 9 Lives of a Wet Pussy), The Driller Killer found notoriety in the UK as one of the original “video nasties”, and cinemas country-wide were urged by certain newspapers to “BAN THIS FILTH”. If we leap forward to the films of the last decade – Mary, 4.44 Last Day on Earth and Pasolini in particular – with their open approach to storytelling, layering of factual footage and fictional scenes, and profoundly humanist attitude, we can see just how misunderstood a film The Driller Killer was on its release. Ferrara himself has spoken of the film not as an exploitative horror flick but as a comedy, and there is certainly a playful attitude towards horror movie cliches. On more than one occasion, bloody expectations are built up with handheld point-of-view shots set to an ominous soundtrack, to end in a “dramatically” anti-climactic fashion. Ferrara’s comedic intention is further indicated by the fact that the protagonist, Reno (played by a leonine Ferrara himself), is – when not drilling into the skulls of down-and-outs – essentially a sweetheart who just wants a little peace and quiet in which to complete his painting. The lack of conventional establishing shots and a disjointed editing style, combined with the often outrageous amount of blood, which spurts fountain-like from Reno’s victims, suggest that what we are witnessing could be a fantasy, that – like Martin Scorsese in Taxi Driver – Ferrara is walking the line between actual narrative events and the protagonist’s perception of them, filtering reality through a deranged psyche. In The Driller Killer we can see how the intricate weaving of fact and fiction that make Ferrara’s later works so powerful was born of necessity. According to legend, the film-maker came up with the film’s story to make use of footage he had shot for a documentary on New York winos that never came to pass, and incorporated those authentic street scenes into The Driller Killer. This technique would evolve over the decades into a new form acknowledging no distinction between the fictional scenario of a given film and footage of real events and real people, as evidenced in Mary, with it’s testimony from real-life religious scholars, and 4.44 Last Day on Earth, with real news footage of religious gatherings around the world and TV interviews with environmental experts. No script existed during the shooting, and the performers were simply given a scenario and told to improvise Ferrara’s John Cassavetes-esque insistence on the authenticity of performances also had it’s beginnings in The Driller Killer. By all accounts, no script existed during the shooting, and the performers – including many non-actors – were simply given a scenario and told to improvise. The Reno character was based on a painter acquaintance of Ferrara, who made use of the friend’s apartment and paintings in the film. In 2014, Willem Dafoe’s performance as Pasolini would be similar immersive, with the actor wearing Pasolini’s clothes and surrounding himself in the study scenes with the books he owned. In The Driller Killer, Ferrara’s distrust of fakery went as far using a real drill-bit. Perhaps to properly grasp Ferrara’s worth, we need to suspend our usual expectations of the medium – to take what Brad Stevens calls the “perceptual challenge” that the film-maker offers us, and entertain the possibility that the apparently chaotic fragmentation of storytelling and character is an intentional aesthetic choice, designed to deny us our usual complacent attitude. Ferrara’s refusal to spoonfeed his audience can then be understood as part of a deeply humanist moral sensibility. The very form of the films is expressive of existential freedom, the idea that – Stevens again – “our ‘self’ exists only to the extent that it is revealed in the course of performative interactions with other individuals … we are actually creative beings capable of inventing and reinventing ourselves from moment to moment”. 