 Preamble: England resume after lunch on 51-1, with Trescothick the man to fall this morning, after Harmison and Hoggard combined to remove the Pakistan batsmen on a pitch that's deteriorating from an excellent batting wicket to one that's looking inviting for Danish Kaneria.  14th over: England 57-1 (Strauss 31, Cook 3)  Strauss picks up where he left off, sending Gul's delivery towards fine leg for a single, then concluding the over with a four past the same region. In between, Ali Cook bags another single with an edge and some quick thinking. 15th over: England 64-1 (Strauss 36, Cook 4)  And another four for Strauss, this time pushing Razzaq away through the slips and out to third man. The fifth ball of the over sees Cook dig precariously out to second slip, but no catch and no wicket. WICKET! 16th over: England 64-2 (Cook 4, c Yousuf b Gul)  A disappointing follow-up after Ali Cook's excellent first-innings display. A poor shot is easily collected by Yousuf fielding at mid-on, and England are (effectively) 147-2. 17th over: England 72-2 (Strauss 44, Pietersen 0)  Two more boundaries for Strauss. He's got his eye in today. First he cracks one square, and then takes advantage of the space at fine leg. Andrew Morgan writes: "Joining the coverage a bit late today, but I notice in the 115th over you seem offended that the poor girl with the broken radio isn't following the OBO. Surely everyone follows both like me? How can any true fan not listen to Geoffrey? How could you risk missing classics like, from the Sri Lanka series, 'That's not a stumping - that's a run-out! I didn't go that far on me holidays!' I also enjoyed Aggers's reference yesterday to a band called Girls Out Loud. You have to love them." I hadn't listened to TMS in absolutely ages before this week when, woe is me, I was stranded on a beach in the sunshine and had to purchase a digital radio to keep up with the cricket. Is there anyone that Blowers will not refer to as "old thing"? 18th over: England 72-2 (Strauss 44, Pietersen 0)  A maiden from Gul bowling to Pietersen. 19th over: England 74-2 (Strauss 46, Pietersen 0)  Economical over from Razzaq, just a Strauss brace as he cuts away adding to the tally. 20th over: England 84-2 (Strauss 46, Pietersen 8)  Expensive stuff served up by Gul, and KP opens his account with a four through the covers, then another boundary blasted back past the bowler, and a brace of leg-byes to finish with, played off his pads.  21st over: England 88-2 (Strauss 48, Pietersen 10)  Four cleverly-worked singles here, with one of Pietersen's leaving Strauss at the possible risk of a run-out, but he makes it home safely. I'm assuming all OBO readers have fallen asleep in front of the telly having eaten their Sunday dinners now. Kaneria will be back on in a minute, making a rather belated entry into the arena this session. 22nd over: England 89-2 (Strauss 48, Pietersen 11)  Just one run off Kaneria's first over of the session, a single played by Pietersen towards leg. There's a screeched appeal for a catch from Strauss's edge towards mid-off, but it was a bump ball, so no luck there. 23rd over: England 93-2 (Strauss 48, Pietersen 15)  A four for Pietersen, playing through cover. I'm being distracted by something that sounds like a concert taking place somewhere in the EC1 region, but I can't for the life of me think what or where it might be. 24th over: England 97-2 (Strauss 52, Pietersen 15)  Fifty up for the stand-in captain's stand-in, and he does it in style cutting behind point for four. For those of you who can't be bothered or don't have the capability to do the mathematics yourself, that's a lead of 180 for England at the end of this over. Debra Powell's not asleep, she's hard at work. Ish. "I'm working away at my desk, following the OBO assiduously as always, but unashamedly leaving it in full view since (a) there's hardly anyone around to see it and (b) they can get lost if they don't approve today." 25th over: England 98-2 (Strauss 52, Pietersen 16)  A little too leisurely from Pietersen adding a single, who would have been in trouble if the Pakistan fielders had got their act together and hit the stumps. As it is, he's safe and Strauss is on strike for the rest of Razzaq's over. 26th over: England 108-2 (Strauss 53, Pietersen 25)  Quintessential Pietersen, opening the over with two fours - a sweep away past fine-leg, though Kaneria makes a strong appeal, and a whack past midwicket. Singles are nicked by both batsmen, and Kaneria will not be happy with any of that. 27th over: England 114-2 (Strauss 58, Pietersen 26)  A ninth four for Strauss, playing away through midwicket, and then two singles bring up the fifty partnership off 70 balls. Ben Hendy wonders: "So what do England need to get by the end of the day to have a chance of winning this thing then?" I don't see any way that this won't be a draw, to be honest, but England will need a lead of over 300 at the very, very least. 28th over: England 114-2 (Strauss 58, Pietersen 26)  Kaneria sets his jaw and vows not to be slaughtered this time out, and puts in a maiden.  29th over: England 120-2 (Strauss 59, Pietersen 29)  Four runs and two no-balls off Afridi, with Pietersen getting himself three more away to mid-on. Jonny Martin regales us with this anecdote: "This is the best chant ever, directed at a Surrey player called Jade Dernbach at the Middlesex game at Oval a week or so ago by about 30 away fans: 'You're just a teenage Dernbach, baby'. I nearly wet myself. As did Dernbach, I think." On noise-related topics, for those of you wondering what on earth is going on near GU Towers, there is some sort of event taking place on Theobald's Road; I can now see police and can hear Seven Nation Army being played from somewhere. It could be that everyone in the entire city has decided to march down here and laugh at me for being stuck inside working on such a gorgeous day. 30th over: England 123-2 (Strauss 60, Pietersen 31)  Two singles for Pietersen and one for Strauss, who's making a big deal about the sightscreens having got himself into a big jellified mess against a wideish Kaneria ball. Messrs Gower and Botham reckon a lead of 350 might tempt England into declaring and putting Pakistan in to bat. 31st over: England 126-2 (Strauss 61, Pietersen 33)  Another two singles for Pietersen and one for Strauss, this time facing Afridi. Nick Hughes wants to know: "In your expert opinion, is KP about to embark on one of his trademark boundary bonanzas? I'm torn over whether to ditch the golf (which happens to be intriguingly poised) and hot foot in down the boozer for the afternoon, or stay on the couch and bank on KP skying a slog sweep at any moment. Any advice?" Well, bearing in mind that if England want to win this they need to rack the runs up quick-smart, it's very possible that Pietersen will take it upon himself to wake up the snoozing MCC members very shortly. So stay put.  32nd over: England 132-2 (Strauss 62, Pietersen 38)  Pietersen is playing calmly at the moment. I love watching him bat, but I can't help but have a sense of foreboding that he'll lose his head and play a needless shot just for the sake of flamboyance. There's a four straight down the ground, and a single, and Strauss is content to let his partner do the grunt-work for the time being. I'm tempted to publish another e-mail comment from Jonny Martin as he's promised to send me chocolate, but I'm not that easily bought. 33rd over: England 135-2 (Strauss 64, Pietersen 39)  Strauss gets himself two in this Afridi over, with Pietersen managing a single. Both have strike-rates of around 65 so far in this game. Jarlath Pratt shares my own particular dilemma - that of what to see at the cinema tonight: "Superman Returns or Pirates of the Caribbean?" It's a tough choice, but I think Johnny Depp wins out. 34th over: England 135-2 (Strauss 64, Pietersen 39)  Maiden over from Kaneria. Steve Green whiles away the time by hypothesising: "England can bowl out Pakistan tomorrow - no problem. With a lead of 340-350 and Monty on after lunch on day 5, my money's on an England win by 80-90 runs. By the way, having missed a flight to San Francisco earlier, I'm now having to get there connecting on Alaska Airlines! Any OBO followers even heard of Alaska Airlines let alone flown with them? Should I be worried sitting here in the BA lounge?" 35th over: England 136-2 (Strauss 64, Pietersen 40)  Just the one run as Pietersen edges towards midwicket. The scoring rate is slowing down, and this is just what England don't want. 36th over: England 141-2 (Strauss 68, Pietersen 41)  A four for Strauss, playing Kaneria away past Inzy who's having a pie-break. Phil Hucknall asks: "I'm just wondering if you or any of the readers have ever noticed Nasser Hussain and Vlad Putin in the same room? I haven't, and I bet that he's actually interrupting the G8 meeting right now to go into the commentary box." WICKET! 37th over: England 141-3 (Pietersen 41, st Akmal b Afridi)  Oh dear. Pietersen gets himself in knots, and the wicket-keeper is happy to remove the bails while the batsman is trying to work out which was is up. And much as I like Paul Collingwood, I'm not sure he's the free-scoring individual England need heading out to the crease now. David Penfold and Paul Jones both know a little about Alaska Airlines (34th over) but I'm not going to publish their comments for fear of provoking a coronary in Steve Green. WICKET! 38th over: England 146-4 (Collingwood 3, c Butt b Kaneria) Oh dear, oh dear. Simple catch for Butt as Collingwood unintentionally plays straight to him at mid-off. Anyway, let the Ian Bell discussion commence. James Andrews kicks off with some firm FACT: "He is getting married at the weekend. I met his bride-to-be's sister on Friday." 39th over: England 147-4 (Strauss 71, Bell 0) Strauss works Afridi down to fine leg for a single, and Bell's back on strike and yet to get off the mark. Jonny Martin and Chris Heeley both mail me another Jade Dernbach song as performed by the wags at the Oval: "If I could Dernback time". Chris chuckles: "Sadly no-one boarded a battleship and straddled a cannon but still a quality bit of banter which had said fielder retreating from the boundary sheepishly." 40th over: England 148-4 (Strauss 72, Bell 0) Another single for Strauss, away to point, but this simply isn't good enough if England genuinely have intentions to win this. An earlier e-mail from John Starbuck heaps pressure on those strawberry-blond shoulders: "How many will Bell have to score to retain his place? If he only gets 30 or so, it won't be enough. He'll need not only a century, it'll have to be quick in the context of the match, and how likely is that?" It'll have to be extremely quick. 41st over: England 153-4 (Strauss 73, Bell 4) Bell begins his work with a four tipped through to cover.  42nd over: England 154-5 (Strauss 74, Bell 4) Just one more single for Strauss, playing Kaneria square, and that takes us to tea. The resident OBO film critics have concluded that Superman Returns is a better bet than Pirate Johnny Depp: "Pirates of the Caribbean is three hours of boring Rubbish, not even Keira Knightley compensates," fumes Azeem Choudhary, and Joe Waters concurs: "I saw Pirates of the Caribbean the other day and wouldn't recommend it to anyone. This film is endless in both senses. It goes on for ever and finishes without reaching a conclusion." So that's that, then. Join me again just before 4pm to see how today's final session pans out. 