Steve Turner 
 Andraé Crouch, who has died aged 72, was the foremost gospel singer of his generation as well as a successful vocal arranger, songwriter, choir leader and pastor. Although he was best known to the wider public for his choral work on Michael Jackson’s hit Man in the Mirror (1988), Madonna’s Like a Prayer (1989) and the soundtrack to the Disney film The Lion King (1994), his passion was for music that expressed his faith and for the less glamorous work of preaching and teaching at his home church in Pacoima, California. Crouch was inspired as much by contemporary pop, rock and R&B as he was by traditional gospel, and his performing career took off on the white church circuit. Consequently, to some gospel music purists he sounded less authentic than grittier contemporaries such as James Cleveland, who played almost exclusively within their own community. According to his biography, Through It All (1974), Crouch and his twin sister Sandra were born in Compton, Los Angeles, to parents, Benjamin and Catherine, who were active in the pentecostal Church of God in Christ. Their father, a preacher who also ran a local cleaning business, moved the family to the San Fernando Valley in 1951 where he established Christ Memorial Church, initially in a garage. While at San Fernando high school, Crouch organised the choir of the expanding church and started performing with Sandra in a seven-piece group, Cogics, the Church of God in Christ Singers, which included the future Motown writer Gloria Jones and the soon to be famous keyboard player Billy Preston. After dropping out of college, Crouch was employed by Teen Challenge, a Christian organisation helping to rehabilitate drug addicts and gang members. He formed the Addicts Choir and began writing songs to comfort and encourage the troubled teenagers he was counselling. From members of his church he and Sandra formed Andraé Crouch and the Disciples and in 1969 they were signed to the mainstream Christian label Light Records. The group rose to prominence at the time of the Jesus Movement when younger Christians, influenced by the countercultural changes of the 1960s, were experimenting with new forms of worship. Although Crouch’s songs became influenced by the pop, soul and funk of the era, he never toned down his message in order to fit in. His best-known songs, such as The Blood Will Never Lose Its Power and Jesus Is the Answer, were as direct as any sermon coming from the pulpit. His music was characterised by punctuated rhythms, chord inversions, the dynamic placing of vocals and frank examinations of biblical teachings compared to his own struggles and failings. He claimed that music came to him as a fully formed gift when he was 11 – he never had formal lessons or learned to read music – and it was hard for him to fit in to the visions of others. “He never played the same chord twice,” said his long-term producer and drummer Billy Maxwell. “In fact, he didn’t play the same chord once.” The final album with the Disciples was Live in London (1978), after which he recorded mainly as a solo artist. Attempts were made in the late 70s and early 80s to establish him as a crossover artist, but this led to his being seen as too secular for the Christian market and too Christian for the secular market. In 1982 he was arrested for possession of cocaine. Although the charge was subsequently dropped, the incident soured his reputation with Christian record-buyers. In 1995, following the death of his parents, he took over as senior pastor of Christ Memorial Church and his recording career took a back seat. Between then and his death there would be a mere five albums, only two of which consisted of original material. He received seven Grammy awards, had a song, Heaven Belongs to You, on the Oscar-nominated soundtrack for The Color Purple (1985), and was given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2004. In 2009 his song Soon and Very Soon was performed by his choir at the funeral of Michael Jackson. On stage he could be deeply serious and punctuated his songs with testimony, praise and exhortation in true gospel style. Off-stage he was a hilarious companion and spent a lot of his time helping lesser-known artists. Crouch is survived by his sister. An older brother, Jerome, predeceased him.  • Andraé Edward Crouch, singer, songwriter and arranger, born 1 July 1942; died 8 January 2015 