Royal Festival Hall, London It was hard to imagine Ravel’s wrist-wrecking and finger-crunching solo part being better played than this 
Martin Kettle 
 The Philharmonia Orchestra’s current series of 20th-century, Paris-themed concerts are a must-hear highlight of this London orchestral season. Each one has been scrupulously prepared by the orchestra’s meticulous principal conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen, and in this latest concert, devoted to the music of Ravel and Stravinsky, the standards of playing stood out, often quite exceptionally, even for ears still beguiled by the memory of the Berlin Philharmonic’s recent concerts. Salonen began with the Pavane pour une Infante Défunte, as cool and beautifully restrained a performance as one could wish. Here, as in the song cycle Shéhérazade and the Piano Concerto for the Left Hand that followed, Salonen’s attention to orchestral balance and detail, allowing individual instrumental colours to blossom without disturbing the ensemble, was of the highest order. High standards were more than matched by the soloists’ contributions, too. Pierre-Laurent Aimard again proved himself the authoritative master of the dark and obsessive left-hand concerto. It was hard to imagine the wrist-wrecking and finger-crunching solo part being better played than this. Meanwhile, Camilla Nylund’s velvet soprano was ideally suited to the languid textures and bright exotic sonorities that Ravel lavishes on Tristan Klingsor’s texts. These hothouse verses, which are hard to admire at the best of times, now seem particularly meretricious, with their erotic drooling over decapitation and death now more starkly problematic than ever in the light of current events. The first of Stravinsky’s appearances in Salonen’s City of Light series came in the shape of the complete Firebird, the work that made the composer into a Parisian celebrity. Once again, Salonen’s attention to detail and colour was often breathtaking, although, a bit like the Firebird score itself, it occasionally felt a bit too self-regarding for its own good. But Salonen had paced the whole thing with great art and cunning, so that in the great final scene the energy level was irresistible and the orchestral blaze as tremendous as ever. 