 The opening few days of any grand slam are a frenzied clutter of activity and Venus Williams, the reigning Wimbledon and US Open champion, has for various reasons never properly adjusted or prepared herself for the year's first major event here. Indeed, many would argue she has not taken it terribly seriously at all, notwithstanding that in three previous visits she has reached two quarter-finals and one semi-final. "Normally I feel a little bit rushed," she said. "Getting here a little earlier this year and winning the tournament on the Gold Coast was very good for me and allowed me an extra week afterwards to look around." And looking around yesterday the inescapable feeling was that Venus is totally focused on making this year's Australian the venue for her fifth grand slam title. Hot on the heels of Andre Agassi pulling out on the opening morning came the rather more expected news of her younger sister Serena's withdrawal; she sprained her right ankle in Sydney last week.  The injury means that Venus has no doubles partner now, which may also broaden her sightseeing plans as well as cutting down on the stress and strain of almost continuous match play.  "I was obviously disappointed for Serena but I was able to move on and that's a good thing because I worry about her a lot and, if I went on court worrying, that could affect my game."  It is doubtful if it really would have. Venus's retention of her Wimbledon and US Open titles, beating Serena in the final at Flushing Meadows, moved her career status significantly clear of her sibling and she is now in a position to claim her place this year as the world No1, which she is anyway in all but name.  Yesterday's 6-2, 6-2 first-round victory over Ansley Cargill of the US, a qualifier, was a formality, as were first- round victories for Monica Seles and Switzerland's Martina Hingis, three times the champion here. By far the biggest upset of the opening day was the defeat of Brazil's Gustavo Kuerten, the world No2 and reigning French Open champion - except that Kuerten has such a shocking record in Melbourne, with only four wins in six visits and never having gone beyond the second round, that his 3-6, 4-6, 7-5, 6-3, 6-3 defeat by France's Julien Boutter, ranked No49, barely constitutes an upset.  Kuerten, through no fault of his own, speaks a form of English that it is about as hard to follow as it is to pick out an individual in an evening swarm of gnats. The phrase "lots of pain" together with the word "surgery" appeared to imply that an injury, sustained during the spring hardcourt season in the US last year, was becoming increasingly serious, although Kuerten did not appear clear where exactly the injury was. "The doctors here talked about my hip. I do not know the right English word," he added.  It is to be hoped he knows the Portuguese word if he has to go under the knife. Last year he was talking about it being a groin problem.  There is little doubt that Kuerten has problems, yet he managed to do awfully well on the clay courts last year while controversially giving himself Wimbledon off.  He prevaricated yesterday as to whether he would be in Ostrava for Brazil's Davis Cup match against the Czech Republic next month and there did not appear to be too much wrong with him when he led Boutter, an increasingly dangerous competitor by two sets.  How many of his problems are in the mind and a matter of confidence it is difficult to be sure. He clearly does not relish this tournament and, despite declaring himself to be well prepared, played in no pre-Open events. His defeat ostensibly opened up his quarter of the draw, which includes Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski, the latter having beaten the Brazilian in the second round last year.  But it was all rather sad. The flamboyant "Guga" of Roland Garros, so worshipped by the French crowds, was a far cry from yesterday's tame and tepid version. 