 Rafael Nadal has called for a reduction in the amount of tennis on the ATP calendar ahead of the start of the US Open. Nadal, who has struggled with tendinitis for much of the year, believes the season is too long and that the requirement to compete regularly in tournaments to gain ranking points puts extra strain on players. "I think that everyone knows that starting on 1 January and ending on 5 December is too long of a calendar," said Nadal. "But it's not easy to fix because there are many tournament interests at play and everything is very difficult and you can't scorn any tournament. We must try to find the best possible solution that more or less pleases everyone." "Things need to change. I believe the bad thing about the calendar is how it is made and obligates you to play tournaments all year. If you want to achieve the most you can [and] go as high up [in the rankings] as you can, you have to play from the start to the finish because there are important tournaments from the beginning to the end." The former world No1, who was unable to defend his Wimbledon title because of the debilitating knee problem, has felt the frequency of competition on the ATP Tour impact on his fitness. Nadal could join Roger Federer as only the seventh man to win a career grand slam if he succeeds at Flushing Meadow, but for now, he is concentrating solely on his physical preparation for the tournament. "Right now I am only thinking of my knees and am trying to find my best performance as soon as possible," he said. "It's tough to say if I am going to be ready 100% for the US Open. It's normal because after a long break and major injuries, it's difficult to be ready. But I will try." "It seems like my knees are much better. But you never know. I have to play at the top level to see how it affects my knees." Nadal made his comeback earlier this month, in Montreal, then reached the semi-finals of the Cincinnati Masters before falling at the hands of Novak Djokovic. And the Spaniard believes he will be ready for the US Open, which starts on 31 August, after the disappointments of earlier in the season. "I wasn't in good condition when I arrived at two important tournaments of the season – Roland Garros and Wimbledon. But otherwise I am OK. I am very happy to be back on court, excited and motivated to work hard to try and play my best tennis as soon as possible." "My goal is to be competitive, to try and win important tournaments. That's my goal and if it's like this then I am going to have my chances to be No1 [again]." 