With removal vans expected at No 10 on Wednesday, a relaxed-sounding prime minister gives few hints about his plans 
Rowena Mason Political correspondent 
 David Cameron’s announcement that he would officially resign as prime minister on Wednesday means the removal van is expected to roll up at the back entrance of No 10 on that day. Sources said his exit plan is still being worked out, given the suddenness of the announcement, but cameras and reporters will be present to witness the changeover in Downing Street as they have for previous departing prime ministers. If he follows the pattern of his predecessors, he would leave No 10 alongside his family before heading to see the Queen in order to tender his resignation formally. The most likely plan would be for him to then return to his constituency home in West Oxfordshire as the official residence in Chequers will no longer be his to enjoy and his pre-2010 home in Notting Hill has been rented out. Larry the cat, the official Downing Street moggy, will not be moving out with him because he is the pet of the staff who work there. Before then, Cameron’s final act will be appearing at prime minister’s questions for the last time. He also has the right to announce a list of resignation honours, including peerages and other rewards for people who have helped him in the job, although the last prime minister to do this was John Major in 1997. Sources who work with Cameron say he has taken the loss of the Brexit vote and his subsequent resignation in his stride, remaining professional and practical. He also sounded remarkably relaxed about the timing of his departure when pressed about whether he was trying to cling on for a valedictory trip to the G20 in early September. “I will serve for as long or as short as is necessary. But certainly if I have to attend the G20 I will, but if I don’t have to, I won’t,” he said, sounding ambivalent about his final few weeks of duties. However, last week he gave an emotional speech to those who have worked with him in Downing Street over the past six years at a farewell garden party in the grounds of No 10. The prime minister has given little indication about his plans for life after No 10, other than stressing that he will still serve as an MP until at least 2020. During his first and last outing on the refurbished prime ministerial plane on Friday, Cameron left his options open when asked whether he could take another cabinet job in future or leave to make money in business like former prime minister Tony Blair. “It’s my intention to continue serving as an MP and helping represent the interests of the people of West Oxfordshire and anything else I do will come a bit later,” he said, stressing that he was happy to leave the job early or not depending on whatever the party decided. Now he has been relieved of his duties nine weeks sooner than planned he is likely to take a long summer holiday – and it may well be somewhere more exotic than he has been used to for the past six years. 