Jeremy Paxman has said he is baffled by students voting to boycott University Challenge over claims he made misogynistic and sexist comments to previous team members. The University of Reading students’ union this week voted 120 to 105 in favour of boycotting the popular BBC2 quiz show, produced by ITV Studios, over claims relating to a previous appearance by the university’s team. Students felt their concerns over comments made by the presenter were not taken seriously, but the union said it could not disclose details of what was said owing to a confidentiality agreement. Paxman said the claims might relate to a comment he made about a team mascot during a break in filming a show 18 months ago, in which Reading was competing against Imperial College London. “I have racked my brains to discover what on earth the Reading students’ union is on about,” he said in a statement. “I think they’re referring to a recording of University Challenge which took place in February 2015, though I am baffled at why it has become an issue a year and a half later.  “There was a technical fault which meant we had to interrupt the recording, leaving all of us sitting at our desks in the studio while the problem was sorted out in the control gallery. “In the conversation to fill the void – in a brightly lit studio, in front of all eight contestants, a full studio crew and an audience of several hundred spectators – I asked the Reading team about the mascot sitting on their desk. “One of them said it was a hand-knitted Jeremy Paxman doll. Across the several yards separating the chairman’s desk from the teams, I asked the whole team whether they took it to bed with them. Though no complaint was made at the time, this, apparently, is what has upset them.” But Niall Hamilton, Reading students’ union’s education officer, said the students’ concerns had not been adequately addressed at the time.  In a blog post, Hamilton wrote: “This incident resulted in a complaint being filed by contestants. The response by ITV was that they would inform Paxman that he had offended a contestant. They did not issue a formal apology and they did not produce any consolation to the contestants.  “Misogyny and sexism are not about ‘offending’ contestants, but undermining and oppressing individuals due to their gender. “In such a historical and respected institution as University Challenge, these forms of oppression should not be taken lightly. Serious investigations and repercussions must be made to ensure women feel comfortable participating in University Challenge.” The students’ union, Hamilton added, should not be in a position “to promote and encourage students to participate in an institution with a serious lack of regard for the equality and accessibility of women on their show”. Reading University is stepping in to enter a team for the show, and a university spokesman said: “University Challenge is a national institution. We want our brightest and best students competing against the top universities in the UK in front of millions of viewers. “The biggest issue with University Challenge is the outrageous social media abuse and trolling of female contestants. It is not news there is a gender imbalance on University Challenge – Jeremy Paxman himself raised it last year. The best way of combating prejudice and encouraging women to take part is fronting up and entering a team, not avoiding the programme.” According to ITV, producers from the show spoke to a member of Reading’s team at the time and they indicated they were satisfied with the response.  A University Challenge spokesperson said: “Last year producers spoke with a Reading University contestant about a comment made during a conversation with the whole team which would appear to have been misinterpreted.  “The student union’s recent comments are surprising, we are, however, pleased that Reading University continue to apply for the show.” 