From the debauchery of Faux Mo to a Syrian wedding singer turned electro superstar, the Guardian Australia team pick their festival highlights 
Brigid Delaney 
 Hobart’s seventh Mona Foma (Mofo) ended, at least for me, around 2am on an arctic Monday morning in the Odeon theatre at one of the festival’s now legendary Faux Mo parties. Occupying an enormous block every night of the festival, the parties appear to be designed by and for someone on LSD. Entering through a slit in some fabric, it felt like a birthing suite: people lying on the ground murmuring mantras and ambient synth playing, punctured by screams. In a confused moshpit, a weird liturgical dance troupe wearing only strips of black tape wound its way through the crowd (a mixture of art school types and pissed Hobart teens). Violent Femme (and Mofo curator) Brian Ritchie stood on stage in what appeared to be a space suit. He read a long poem. Then a massive bed was wheeled through the crowd with various people writhing on it. Was this one of the legendary Hobart sex parties I’d heard so much about? Organisers are already calling Mofo 2015 success. Around 40,000 people attended the three day event, even if wild weather “definitely put a dampener on numbers,” Ritchie told the Hobart Mercury. My own favourite moments: Paul Kelly’s gig, Amanda Palmer (with the Tasmania Symphony Orchestra) duetting beautifully on Perfect Day with her husband Neil Gaiman, and the weird and incredibly wonderful Maritime Rites. Here, my Guardian Australia colleagues offer their highlights and lowlights. Metaller heaven As the clouds rolled over on Thursday evening, dotted among the grey-shift-wearing sound art fans and jolly “what’s all this then?” locals were the metal faithful, awaiting the arrival of their black metal heroes Marduk. While Speak Percussion played Karlheinz Stockhausen’s cerebral 1964 work Microphonie I, a gaggle of metalheads gathered outside, their backs against the wind. “It’s what we’re here for, really, isn’t it?” a beardy type said with a wink.  His hair, at that stage in a sensible braid, was unleashed when Sweden’s finest eventually exploded on to the stage to the tune of Mussorgsky’s Night On Bald Mountain. There was only a small clutch of true believers in the pit as the band tore through their set – but judging by a certain looseness in the neck of many punters, a whole new brace of headbangers was born. Clem Bastow Thursday started with a folky fusion of Aboriginal music and improv jazz, and ended with a Swedish hardcore metal band, welcoming one of the more diverse festival crowds: families, hipsters and hippies, die-hard metalheads lurking in the corners and a noticeable amount of drunk ladies dancing around to Ben Frost. But on Thursday and Friday, Brendan Walls’ sound art installation Elements of Refusal, in Kelly’s Garden, was shut down because of a noise complaint from office workers above the courtyard, who couldn’t handle the sound and called the cops. It wasn’t even loud! Also on Friday, Genevieve Lacey’s recorder performance proved a little intense for some. Overhead in the bathrooms: “Oh man, don’t go out there, it’s like the soundtrack to your worst ever acid trip.” Anna Madeleine Extra-bouncy castles The conclusion of Jim Moginie’s pop-up gig in Exxopolis was more dramatic than anticipated on Friday, with the giant inflatable sculpture evacuated due to the weather. Around 80 people were ushered out of the cavernous, lighted complex as winds buffeted its thin walls. As I emerged from interviewing Moginie in his (inflatable) backstage area, I was surprised to see the whole place deserted, an unexpected treat in an otherworldly place you wished you could wander alone. Surprise turned to mild alarm when the structure wobbled, then threatened to flip over entirely. A giant red “tree” at its centreshook violently. I made my way briskly to the exit, where a group of shoeless visitors were eagerly hoping to be let back in. Alas, the winds did not abate and Exxopolis was deflated, only to remerge, triumphantly, later in the day. Oliver Milman More disappointing were the elusive tea-related events dotted around Hobart. Tea for the Party, billed as a new kind of Japanese-themed tea ceremony, was paired with a roaming pop-up “tea cube”. The highlight appeared to be a 24-tea meditation, where participants were dared to “test their stamina” with no Bushells allowed. Distressingly, it wasn’t to be found at Mawson Place as advertised, despite a lengthy search. No tea or meditation for me, then, although I only missed the first part of that equation. If we’re going to start mythologising teathe way we do coffee by teaming it with meditation, that’s fine, but at least follow through with it, no matter how rainy it is in Hobart. Oliver Milman In performance art terms, “man breaks 250 hammers” seemed a straightforward enough concept. But Li Binyuan’s Deathless Love transcended the form. Performance art became spectator sport as the crowd cheered each successive smash, lifting Li’s flagging spirits whenever he collapsed onto the concrete plinth.  In an hour and a half’s worth of sweat and tears (and, at one stage, a kiss for the hammer in his hand), the artist’s inscrutable dedication occasionally dissolved into desperation, leading viewers to question the point of it all. “It’s about destruction,” one bystander said; “It’s a statement about the life of the professional artist,” offered another. Children gripped their parents’ sleeves with concern. “This is the best thing I’ve ever seen,” echoed around the shed.  The endless battering took on an added poignancy, mere steps away from buildings whose blocks had been carved by convicts’ hard labour. Clem Bastow On Saturday morning, it felt as though the whole of Hobart was hungover, as people napped on bean bags, struggling even to taste-test the whisky at Salamanca arts centre.  Festival curator Brian Ritchie was cruising around all weekend watching almost every show. Wearing a lanyard that simply read “Brian”, he even made a cameo during Amanda Palmer’s concert, after he emerged from a black cloth he’d been sitting under, then slowly made his way down the stairs and out of the doors all while playing a mellow tune on his Shakuhachi flute. But Palmer wasn’t about to be upstaged. She got naked during her encore performance Map of Tasmania – apart from her own strategically placed map of Tasmania, of course. Anna Madeleine If you’re a punting sort, it’s always diverting to pick, ahead of time, which artist will end up being a festival’s MVP. The well-loved rock band? The local hero? Or, in the case of Mofo 2015, the Syrian wedding singer turned electro superstar, Omar Souleyman. The prolific performer, who is enjoying a wider audience thanks to festival gigs and collaborations with Kieran “Four Tet” Hebden and Björk, drew an enormous crowd on Saturday evening. Souleyman’s understated stage presence meant the merest “pump it up” hand signal whipped the audience into a complete frenzy. At times, the hint of a smile cracked his serious showman facade, leaving him looking not unlike the Cool Dude emoji. Accompanied by an enigmatic keyboardist and a psychedelic backdrop , his electrified takes on traditional Middle Eastern songs rang out against the freezing wind and left punters in no confusion as to who was the true star of the festival. Clem Bastow • Mofo 2015: Hobart stylewatch• Brian Ritchie on Violent Femmes and curating Mofo• Jim Moginie on Mofo and life after Midnight Oil• Michael Gira: Swans, religion and the hubris of Matthew Barney• Ben Frost on Aurora and his Australian homecoming 