 Cricket Australia is already committed to a comprehensive Ashes review as it faces up to the greatest crisis for a generation. The review is expected to have as wide a scope as that conducted by England after their Ashes whitewash in Australia four years ago, and subsequent failure in the World Cup. The Schofield report, under the chairmanship of Ken Schofield, the former executive director of golf's European Tour, came up with 19 recommendations, the vast majority of which have been implemented, and have contributed to England's substantial improvement. Australia's determination to conduct its own root-and-branch review, with the Ashes series not yet at its mid-point, illustrates its scepticism that the team can pull back a 1-0 series deficit and is bound to give England fresh heart as they head towards the third Test, which begins in Perth on Thursday. They have lost four of their last five — their worst run since the mid-80s — and Ricky Ponting is in danger of becoming only the third Australia captain to preside over three Ashes defeats. At the heart of the inquest will be an incoherent selection policy that has left Australia to contest the Ashes series with an ageing side, and with no united view about who should replace the old players. Board members are dismayed that the end of Australia's dominant era has left a vacuum, with standards in Shield cricket also perceived to be falling. Andrew Hilditch, the chairman of selectors, has already been pressed at board level to explain the sort of selection policy that has made Michael Beer, a Western Australia player in his debut season, the 10th spinner tried after the retirement of Shane Warne four years ago. Hilditch has also been pressed about what plans have been put in place for the captaincy succession – a job long presumed to be heading to Michael Clarke – when Ponting steps down. The former Australia captain Steve Waugh has called for strong judgments on which young players can make up the next generation. "This is a situation similar to back in '85-86 when the selectors sat down and thought, 'This is a group of cricketers we're going to stick with through thick and thin and let's back them,'" he said. Greg Chappell, Australia's first full-time selector, has suggested that it is the size of the challenge that tempted him to accept the job at the age of 62. "I knew we were coming to the end of an era and it was going to be a challenging time, but I think that probably made it more exciting," he said today. A few years ago it wouldn't have been a lot of fun ticking the same 11 boxes every game. This way, it's very much about trying to put a team together over the next few years." Fanciful suggestions that Warne could be tempted into a comeback are part of the problem. "I've been amused by it, but I don't know that it's going to take Australian cricket forward," Chappell said. Chappell's admission that Australia's fielding "hasn't reached the heights we would like", could signal the latest dispute. "The Australian cricket team has always prided itself on good fielding. I don't think we are a great fielding team at the moment," he said. That has left critics asking why Mike Young, Australia's fielding coach, does not know whether he is required from one Test to the next. Young was not present in Adelaide, has been summoned to Perth, but is not required – at the moment anyway – for the final two Tests in Melbourne and Sydney. Young was once hailed as Australia's "secret weapon" by the former wicketkeeper Adam Gilchrist, because of throwing and fielding techniques taken from baseball, but Cricket Australia has yet to confirm whether he will be involved in the one-day series. "If asked, of course I'd be in Sydney and Melbourne," he said. Tim Bresnan, Chris Tremlett and Ajmal Shahzad all failed to shine in Melbourne but we look at the qualities each bowler possesses which could see them star in the third Test at the Waca 