Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen, including Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn at PMQs and the Commons debate on Brexit 
Andrew Sparrow and 
Nicola Slawson 
20:19
 Here are the key news articles and opinion pieces to read if you want to catch up on today’s events: That’s all from me tonight. Thanks so much for joining us today and for all your comments.  
20:10
 In other Brexit-related news, Tesco is running low on stocks of Marmite (and other products, but let’s face it that’s the only one we care about).  The supermarket’s main supplier, Unilever has halted deliveries of a range of goods blaming the fall in the pound. A source accused Unilever of “using Brexit as an excuse to raise prices”.  Read more on that from my colleague Sarah Butler here.  
19:58
 Here’s an excerpt from my colleague Phillip Inman’s piece on how the pound has dropped even further: A brief rally in the pound was quickly reversed on Wednesday after the government refused to make tariff-free access to the European Union’s single market a red line in Brexit negotiations with Brussels. Investors sold the pound after Brexit minister David Davis told MPs it was “not black or white” whether the UK would stay in the single market. Sterling fell two cents to $1.21 on the currency markets in afternoon trading, reversing a jump to $1.23 overnight that followed Theresa May’s concession for parliament to hold a debate on the government’s stance on talks with the EU. The U-turn in agreeing to a debate initially lifted markets, but the refusal of ministers to clarify the government’s position provoked a swift reversal in sentiment and the pound ended the day at $1.22. 
19:48
 Thangam Debbonaire, a Labour MP, used her speech to discuss the importance of freedom of movement.  She ended her speech by saying:  If the government want to jettison all of that, the secretary of state should at least have had the courtesy to inform the British people what they were risking. The government should respect the sovereignty of this Parliament, which Brexit campaigners made so much of. Does the secretary of state really want to throw all that away?  It is clear to me that they have no plan for the future of this country, and if they throw it all away, without debate, without proper scrutiny and without the full participation of the British people, my constituents and the country will never forgive them. Updated
19:46
 Former cabinet member and Conservative MP, Maria Miller, is concerned that the British parliament is coming across as arrogant.  She said this during her speech earlier: There is an arrogance creeping into the debate today that we should take great care about, because only one certainty is coming from the referendum decision in June: the vote to leave the EU – I put it on record that I was a remainer – and nothing else is certain at this point. Members on both sides have advocated membership of or freedom to trade in the single market, freedom of movement, or no freedom of movement.  Our EU partners listening today may be forgiven for thinking that there is more than a touch of arrogance coming from the British parliament, but the truth is that it is all up for grabs, and it is not for us to determine the outcome at this stage.  We may well continue trading in the single market – I certainly hope so – but that is what this negotiation is all about. 
19:24
 In his speech earlier, Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative MP, said it only appeared like his constituency voted to remain because the result had been “infected” by the votes cast in the city of Bath. The leading leave campaigner was told by Labour’s Chris Bryant that his north east Somerset constituency had voted to stay in the EU. But Rees-Mogg blamed “urbanites” for the result. Intervening on Rees-Mogg, Bryant said:  “You and I are in rather similar positions. The Rhondda voted to leave but I support remain. north east Somerset voted to remain but you supported leave. Do you fully accept that given what you have said about sovereignty that all of us in this house are not sent as delegates, we are here as representatives and we owe to our constituents our conscience as much as our vote?”  But Rees-Mogg prompted laughter across the House as he replied:  You should check the record. Unfortunately north east Somerset was not counted separately. We were infected by the votes of people in Bath. I’m pretty confident that the wise people of rural Somerset voted to leave whilst the urbanites in Bath voted to remain. He’s been accused of being an isolationist by Labour MP Liz McInnes on Twitter. Jacob Rees-Mogg claims that his constituency voted remain because they were "infected by the people of Bath." A true isolationist. #Brexit Updated
19:11
 The debate is over now. The motion, which was changed to include the government’s amendment, was passed unopposed. I will continue to post highlights from earlier speeches. Here’s more from Dominic Grieve, a Conservative MP: I don’t have a prescriptive view as to what it should be, I’m quite happy to debate those issues and to listen to colleagues.  But what I am not prepared to do, and I say this with emphasis, is to have options closed down by diktat from wherever that may come, and I’m sorry to have to say, whether that be colleagues or the executive, on this matter.  They will have to be debated in this House, and this House will have to give its approval. Mr Grieve also said he was worried at the “accepted euphoria that has followed this process” and warned of the legal quagmire that lays ahead.  He said:  “I have to say – I hope I am not too gloomy – that I see it as fraught with risk. There is the risk of the economic damage.  I have to say as a lawyer I see the repeal process and our leaving as being a legal nightmare, one that is going to take up an endless amount of this House’s time, and to the prejudice of many of the other priorities on which we should be focused.  It undoubtedly impinges on the devolution settlements and competence, we have a duty to maintain legal certainty and the rule of law which will be jeopardised in the process, there are private legal rights that are likely to be affected – some of which may lead to litigation and claims for compensation.”  Updated
18:56
 Spelling out in fine detail what goes on in the negotiations is not realistic, says David Jones.  He says they have already set out the broad terms of what Brexit will look like. The house, he says, will be engaged in the process. The government agrees a balance needs to be struck.  Updated
18:53
 David Jones, minister of state for exiting the European Union, is speaking now. We all have a duty to respect and not seek to frustrate the will of the people, he says. He is pleased that most MPs appear to agree on this.  Updated
18:44
 Barry Gardiner, shadow international trade secretary, is speaking now.  He says he accepts that we can’t have a running commentary on the Brexit process but the prime minister must provide a coherent and reasoned picture of what sort of future it wants for its citizens.  Everyone expects that negotiations will be tough but this does not stop the government from being clear about its objectives, he says.  Parliament must be part of the process, he adds.  
18:37
 Stephen Kinnock, another Labour MP, is speaking now.  Rebuilding public trust in politicians and healing a fractured and divided society, must both be at the top of the government’s agenda, he says. Demanding a parliamentary vote on Brexit is not a ploy to overturn the referendum vote, he says as his Labour colleagues nod. It must happen but it must be subject to the democratic process.  
18:23
 This is what Chris Bryant, a Labour MP, said in his speech earlier:  “Not only was I a Remainer, I am a Remainer and I’ll remain a Remainer until my dying day.” Updated
18:16
 Nic Dakin, a Labour MP, says nobody knows what Brexit actually means. Like beauty, it is in the eye of the beholder, he says.  People want to come out but they don’t want to lose out, he says.  People expect MPs to manage these contradictions and try and square the circle. We must listen to those who didn’t vote to leave, he says. That doesn’t mean overturning the vote but doing what’s in the best interests of everybody. He ends his passionate speech mid-sentence by saying, I think that will do actually, and sits down.  Updated
17:59
 The people of Teesside voted to leave the EU but they did not vote to give the government a blank cheque, says Anna Turley, Labour MP for Redcar, who just made her speech.  She wants to know that the British steel industry will be protected and rebuilt post-EU, and that parliament will have a say in trade deals.  A hard Brexit could be disastrous for Teesside, she says. Adding that subsidies supporting Teesside’s economy will still be crucial. Updated
17:48
 Liz Kendall, the Labour MP, is speaking now. She is reminding everyone of the state of the sterling. The government should pay attention but they are not, she says. She also reminds everyone that this will have an impact everyone, not just those going on foreign holidays.  The prime minister, she says, has failed to recognise that the fall in sterling has benefitted the asset-rich while those who are poor suffer as the cost of everyday products rise.  Updated
17:38
 As promised earlier, here is an extract from Ed Miliband’s speech near the start of the debate. He said the country was “deeply divided” and politicians had to try to bring it together. It is up to all of us to try to heal the divisions. Now, from my side, remain, and for my part, I believe it mean we should accept the result of the referendum as part of trying to bridge that divide. The people voted, and we should accept the result. But, if I can put it this way, the humility of those who lost should be matched by the magnanimity of those who won. As I think about my responsibilities, I do say to the people who voted leave and were successful, they should think about the remain people in our country who feel lost and wonder is there a place for them in Britain after Brexit. Responsibilities lie on both sides. And, if I can say in passing, we should stop impugning the motives of each other. The vast majority of those who voted to leave did not do so because of prejudice. And those who are now advocating proper scrutiny and consent of this parliament are not doing so, as the Daily Mail says today, because they want to reverse the vote. It’s for much deeper reasons than that. It’s about the mandate from this referendum.  That’s all from me, Andrew Sparrow, for this afternoon. My colleague Nicola Slawson is taking over now to cover the rest of the debate. 