William Hill has rejected a revised takeover proposal worth more than £3bn from 888 Holdings and Rank Group, saying there was no merit in entering into talks. The bookmaker said it received an unsolicited proposal from online gambling company 888 and casino operator Rank on 14 August after turning down an approach on 8 August. The revised proposal is 199p a share in cash, plus 0.86% of a share from a proposed combination of 888 and Rank. The cash component is unchanged, but William Hill shareholders would own 48.8% of the combined group, up from 44.6% under the earlier proposal. Based on the three companies’ market values on 22 July, the day before 888 and Rank’s interest was made public, the proposal is worth 352p a share, William Hill said. On that basis, the proposal values the company at about £3.1bn. William Hill said the proposed offer was 12% higher than its share price on 22 July – too low a premium – and worth 13p a share more than its rivals’ earlier approach.  The bookmaker’s shares fell by 2.6% to 325p, suggesting that investors do not expect a deal to result from the tussle between the companies. With the deadline of 21 August approaching for 888 and Rank to make a firm offer, the latter has delayed its annual results presentation by five days to 23 August. The deal is risky because it involves a complex three-way combination and £2.2bn of extra debt for the proposed merged group, William Hill said, adding that the small premium does not compensate shareholders for the risk, and proposed cost cuts of at least £100m a year may not materialise. Gareth Davis, the chairman of William Hill, said: “This revised proposal continues to substantially undervalue the company and the cash element of the proposal has not changed. Therefore, the board sees no merit in engaging. As we have said before, this is highly opportunistic and complex, and does not enhance the strategic positioning of William Hill.” The joint approach for William Hill has caught the bookmaker at a low ebb. The company is looking for a chief executive after ousting James Henderson last month following its failure to capitalise on a growing online betting market. Using a different calculation method, 888 and Rank said the proposed offer was worth 394p a share to William Hill shareholders, valuing the company at £3.4bn. They urged the company’s board to enter talks that could unearth further cost savings.  The potential bidders argue that extra debt would be affordable because of low interest rates and the combined group would be able to reduce its borrowings rapidly. It would be Britain’s biggest multi-channel gambling company, combining William Hill’s high street betting shops with Rank’s casinos and bingo halls, as well as online sports betting and gaming, they said.  Analysts at stockbrokers Goodbody said: “There is difference in the value both companies are attaching to proposed offer and William Hill’s board continues to have concerns around a number of key issues. In order to change this view, it looks like a further increase in the proposed offer would have to be reached before they would even start to engage with the consortium.” 