Body Count Rising (Radio 4) | iPlayerBritain’s Black Presence (Radio 4) | iPlayerVictoria Pendleton Meets Anna Meares (5 Live) | iPlayerSound Frontiers: Margaret Atwood and Naomi Alderman (Radio 3) | iPlayer Actor Doon Mackichan has made a powerful and eloquent documentary about how women are portrayed in current crime drama, ie raped, or subject to violence, or dead. In Body Count Rising, she and her interviewees expressed all the reasons I don’t watch such shows any more. “TV culture has made the rape and ritualistic murder of women an industry unto itself,” said Mackichan early on. We know this: what was interesting about this documentary was what she did with this information. Journalist Sonia Saraiya said that at a certain point in her career, she began to joke that her job title shouldn’t be “TV critic” but “senior rape correspondent”. Partly, this is simply because there is more telly, more shows being made and shown, many from countries with different broadcasting restrictions to ours. But there are other reasons too, and this programme examined what these might be. Playwright Nick Payne suggested a year of drama where no women die. Imagine! Can you? We heard from sociologists and academics, plus Allan Cubitt, the writer-director of The Fall, still gamely insisting that his show is empowering, and – very affectingly – from a young actress about how acting the part of a gang-rape victim made her feel. Like “a dog-eared rag being pulled apart”, she said. Like “you’re halfway there in your head”. After the scene was filmed to the director’s satisfaction, she then had to pull herself together and head home with a cheery, “Bye, everyone, see you on set tomorrow.” Everyone in this programme was careful about their choice of words. Such TV “frames the way we see ourselves”, said Mackichan. “Women are starting to see themselves through the male gaze,” said criminal sociologist Ruth Penfold-Mounce. “We can possess this individual. She’s a prop.” Playwright Nick Payne wondered why we depict such acts of violence at all, as showing it will “shift the focus on to the act itself, rather then how the person (victim) feels about that act”. Mackichan discussed Shetland, which did not show the violent act. Payne suggested a year of drama where no women die. Imagine! Can you? It’s tough. Also on Radio 4, in the 15-minute post-lunch slot for a fortnight, US academic Professor Gretchen Gerzina is taking us through Britain’s Black Past, exploring the lives of black people in the UK during the 18th and early 19th centuries. It’s enthralling stuff, though as a presenter, Gerzina is a little flat. Still, what she’s saying is utterly fascinating. We heard about celebrated figures such as Ignatius Sancho, but also lesser ones, like Sambo, a young slave cabin boy who died and is buried near Morecambe Bay. There is plenty of black history to discover, but either we don’t see it or it’s hard to find. As an expert pointed out, we often only know about pre-20th-century black people because they are exceptional in some way: “They come through the fissures of history,” he said, which is a nice way of putting it. On 5 Live, I enjoyed Victoria Pendleton and her great cycling rival Anna Meares discussing how their competitiveness shaped each other’s careers; and on Radio 3’s Free Thinking, it was great to hear Margaret Atwood and Naomi Alderman being clever and funny. Alderman’s new book, out later this month, imagines a world where women are endowed with an automatic power to hurt. Not every woman is a victim, or a pretty-to-look-at corpse. Some of us are exploring ideas, re-examining history, smashing Olympic records, getting on with our interesting lives. 