 Whistleblowing tool Whisper has been criticised for its defence of tracking of “anonymous” users, with Twitter’s former security head Moxie Marlinspike stating the site never should have claimed it should never have claimed to provide anonymity if it had to track users to make the app function. It was the failure to be open about that problem, Moxie argued, which led to the Guardian’s revelation on Thursday that Whisper tracks its allegedly anonymous users - either with user consent using GPS data that is accurate to within a 500 metre radius, or where they have opted out establishing broad location using IP data. Moxie, who is also a contributor to Open Whisper Systems, a secure communications project which has no relation to Whisper (but has long held a grudge against the start-up for appropriating its name), was writing in response to Whisper’s chief technical officer, Chad DePue, on the link sharing site Hacker News.  DePue, and Whisper’s Editor in Chief Neetzan Zimmerman, both vehemently deny the Guardian’s report. But Moxie argued that, far from debunking the news, DePue’s response backed up the Guardian’s claims. “It sounds like the reporting is entirely accurate,” he wrote. “You’re attempting to justify why you’re tracking your users, but you’re still tracking them.” “You’ve highlighted many of the hard problems in this space: how do you achieve anonymity and unlinkability while doing things like IP hiding, spam filtering, and relevance matching,” he asked.  “The issue is that you haven’t solved the problems, and are instead suggesting you should get a pass because the problems are hard. It seems simple to me: if you haven’t designed something that gives you truly unlinkable anonymity, don’t claim to provide it. If you have to track your users to make your app work, don’t claim not to track your users.” Following the release of the Guardian’s story, Buzzfeed put its relationship with the Whisper on hold. The site had worked with Whisper on number of stories culled from the service, including 29 confessions from the gaming widows of Whisper and The heartbreaking military confessions of whisper.  The Guardian had initially begun to work with Whisper to find Iraq war veterans who wanted to share their opinions of Isis, find an undocumented immigrant to write an opinion article and post people’s confessions about Valentine’s Day. Despite denying much of the Guardian’s story, Whisper rewrote portions of its privacy policy after the paper asked it for comment on the allegations.  The new policy warns users for the first time that their general location may be determined even if they disable location services; that they share data with universities and other research institutions; and that they store user data in countries besides the United States.  The updated privacy policy went live four days after the Guardian contacted Whisper, and three days before the paper published the story, but does not come into effect until 12 November. For Moxie, the firm’s approach undercuts the attempts of privacy-focused projects to provide real security. “There are projects like Tor that are approaching these types of problems seriously,” he writes, “but apps like Whisper or Secret end up poisoning the well and confusing users.  “There’s a huge difference between ‘can’t’ track and ‘won’t’ track. Right now [Whisper is] claiming ‘can’t,’ but it sounds like [it’s] squarely in the ‘won’t’ category of having [its] servers ‘avert their eyes.’ I think this understandably makes people uneasy, particularly given the data mining direction it sounds like the company is headed.” Shortly after the Guardian published its story, Open Whisper Systems tweeted to clarify that it has no relationship to Whisper. Uhm, just a reminder that the snakeoil privacy app @whisper is unrelated to @whispersystems. Their name, like their app, is an affectation. 