 The Raspberry Pi is a fantastic little machine, but not that simple to get up and running if the user has never built a PC or used Linux before. Kano is trying to change that for adults and children alike. At its heart, Kano is essentially a Raspberry Pi kit but it goes further by providing a plug-and-play learning environment that anyone, including children as young as eight, can get up and running within minutes. Asking for $100,000 in funding on Kickstarter, Kano is available as a kit for a $99 pledge, or for a $199 “get one, give one” pledge funders will get one for themselves and one will be donated to a sponsored child. The box includes everything required to build a computer short of a screen, including a Raspberry Pi, a case, wireless keyboard with trackpad, cables, Wi-Fi dongle, and even a speaker. The parts snap together a bit like Lego, with colour coded cables and a simple instruction booklet guiding the user through the quick and easy steps – no mammoth text books required. The Kano kit comes with an SD card loaded with Kano OS, a highly customisable bespoke, simplified and easy to use Debian Linux distribution, which guides the user through setup and using the computer once it is built. Kano OS also includes multimedia packages, plus Kano Blocks, an open source visual programming language that can output code in Python and JavaScript among other languages, and can be used for all sorts of things including game creation, plugging directly into things like Pong and Minecraft. If Kano is seen as just another Raspberry Pi kit, which it is at its heart, then it is expensive at $99. You could argue others have already done what Kano is trying to do, and that the Raspberry Pi doesn’t need extras like a case, keyboard and speaker – it was created as a barebones system for a reason.  In terms of usability, Kano offers more out of the box than just a standard Raspberry Pi, or than most Raspberry Pi kits. According to the co-founder Alex Klein, “Kano is a computer anyone can make – not just a hacker’s toy” and on the face of it, that’s exactly what Kano is.  The Kano kit builds on top of the incredible success of the Raspberry Pi, adds a speaker, and easy-to-assemble kit, and makes it more accessible to more people – a simple to use “experience layer” over a Raspberry Pi, as Klein puts it. Kano kit is something that could be bought for a child without the need for a tech-savvy adult to do the legwork getting command line up and running. It challenges children to first build a computer, and then go on to learn about using computers, programming and computer science in fun and engaging ways using the “gameification” of levelling up to keep kids entertained. Kano could be the Raspberry Pi kit ordinary people and children have been waiting for. Star rating: 4/5 • In October, the Raspberry Pi Foundation announced it had sold 2m Raspberry Pis globally in under two years The user interface is a huge improvement over the 360, and Kinect now works well, but Microsoft's latest games console is playing catchup against Sony's PlayStation 4 Keith Stuart and Jon Blyth from Official Xbox Magazine playthrough the new Xbox One console's three major launch titles Keith Stuart and Cara Ellison get to grips with Microsoft's next-gen machine, putting the interface, controller and Kinect through their paces A chaotic mess through which you pick your own path, but still one of the strongest titles in the launch line-up, says Simon Parkin  