Peter Taaffe, who was driving force behind Militants, says Jeremy Corbyn represents a new, democratic and open era 
Heather Stewart and 
Jessica Elgot 
 Peter Taaffe, the driving force behind the hard-left organisation Militant Tendency, has submitted an application to rejoin the Labour party, as part of a group of 75 activists, in the hope of strengthening Jeremy Corbyn’s hand against backbench rebels. Taaffe, who now leads the Socialist party, the successor to Militant, said he and his allies had more than 1,000 years of Labour membership between them, before they were thrown out during a party crackdown. “Jeremy represents a new era: democratic, open and so on,” Taaffe told the Guardian. “Our position is that a new era needs a new form of organisation, which embraces different strands on the left.” Former Labour members who have been expelled must submit their applications directly to the party’s ruling national executive committee. A Labour spokesperson said: “It is against Labour’s rules to be a member of another political party or organisation which has its own programme, principles and policy, or distinctive and separate propaganda and which is therefore ineligible for affiliation to the party.” Labour sources said “They don’t support democratic socialism.” Taaffe said his aim was for the Socialist party to affiliate to Labour, and ultimately field joint candidates – and the application process would be part of a “rolling petition” by his supporters.  He was dismissive of Momentum, the grassroots group set up to support Corbyn and transform the Labour movement. “We don’t agree with Momentum,” he said, singling out Jon Lansman, its chair, for criticism. “He doesn’t agree with compulsory reselection. What is the point of Jeremy Corbyn without the right to remove the Blairites, who are an enormous drag on the progress of the Labour party?” The Socialist party, which will hold its conference in London this weekend, is small; but it was one of the fringe groups Labour’s deputy leader, Tom Watson, claimed was attempting to carry out “Trotskyist entryism” into the party, during this summer’s leadership contest. Taaffe told the Guardian he believed Corbyn, who led the backlash against the expulsion of Militant members in the 1980s, should overturn the decades-long ban on Socialist party members joining Labour and reopen the party to a wider spectrum of opinion. He said Labour should take a tougher approach to issues including cuts to local council budgets, calling on Joe Anderson, the Labour leader of Liverpool council, to pass an illegal budget, rather than seek to raise council tax. “We would say Joe Anderson should act as our comrades did in 1983, and say we’re not going to carry through these cuts,” he said. A source close to Labour’s NEC said the party had readmitted expelled members in the past, but no one who was still an active member of a rival party. “Peter Taafe is not getting back into the Labour party,” the source said. “To be a member you have to support all our candidates. It’s not enough to just support Jeremy Corbyn but actively work against other Labour candidates.” Expelled members who attempt to rejoin are normally flagged automatically to the NEC when they submit their application, though local parties can also flag attempts, depending on the offence that led to expulsion. Derek Hatton, the Militant former deputy leader of Liverpool city council in the 1980s, attempted to rejoin the party during Corbyn’s 2015 election bid but his application was rejected by the Labour general secretary, Iain McNicol.  