The Co-operative Group’s pre-tax profit more than halved to £17m in the first six months of 2016 due to restructuring costs and price cuts, but the company insisted that its three-year turnaround plan was on track.  Pre-tax profit at the UK’s largest co-operative business in the six months to 2 July was down 53% from £36m in the same period last year. Profits were reduced by the cost of a facelift of its business, management restructure, pay rises for shop workers and price cuts at its supermarkets. The latter cost the Co-op £30m in the first half.  As part of a £1.3bn investment to regain customers’ trust following a series of scandals in 2013 and 2014, the 172-year-old group has rebranded its stores, replacing the green facades with the mutual’s traditional blue cloverleaf-like design. The Co-op said it had also written down the value of its investment in the Co-operative Bank by £45m to £140m. The group is halfway through a three-year turnaround programme, after its bank came close to collapse in 2013, threatening the existence of the entire group. This was caused by losses from bad debts on commercial property opening up a £1.5bn hole in its finances. Bondholders took control of the bank at the time, turning the Co-op Group into a minority shareholder. Its financial woes were compounded by revelations that the bank’s former chairman, Paul Flowers, took class A drugs. This led to thousands of customers leaving the scandal-hit firm. A month ago, the Co-op bank revealed a first-half loss of £177m, down from £204m, but warned that the economic fallout from the Brexit vote was a threat to its recovery plans. The bank said the uncertain economic backdrop was depleting its capital reserves – a key cushion against financial instability. The Co-op group’s half-year results showed overall revenues increased 2.2% to £4.7bn in the 26 weeks to 2 July, with customer transactions up 3.3%. Like-for-like food sales rose 3.1%, marking three consecutive years of growth. The grocer has been forced to slash prices to match rivals, and also relaunched its own-brand products. This appears to have paid off: it said its convenient stores grew faster than the market, with sales up 4.3%. But the business took a hit from higher staff wage bills. It has awarded an 8.5% pay rise to 60,000 shop-floor workers and their supervisors over the next two years. More than 5 million Co-op customers start receiving their new membership cards on Friday, which will give them 5% cashback every time they buy a Co-op-branded product or service. An additional 1% will go to charity.  Members spending £20 a week on own-brand groceries will earn £52 in rewards and give £10.40 to charities a year.  Zoe Mills, analyst at consultancy Verdict Retail, said: “The Co-op has a lot to be happy about, as despite the tricky food market, it has increased like-for-like sales, notably at its convenience stores, a relative success given the hardship that other grocers have faced. “Looking ahead, Co-op still faces stiff competition from the likes of Tesco and Sainsbury’s for convenience market share. However, with these grocers also occupied with turning around their bigger stores, Co-op’s smaller store format, and convenience-led strategy, means it has less worries in this regard.” As well as groceries, the Co-op sells pre-paid funeral plans, which have seen strong growth. But due to a falling death rate, profits at its funeral parlours fell to £42m from £47m. Richard Pennycook, the chief executive, said: “We are only halfway through the Rebuild [programme] and much remains to be done, whether it is investing in our digital capability or campaigning on key issues. We remain firmly on track with our plans and are encouraged that the work we are doing is attracting more and more people back to the Co-op.” 