 You’re the digital representative on David Cameron’s business advisory panel. Should digital be seen as a separate sector?While I’m not a full hipster with a beard and tattoos, I am the outlier on the panel. However, I’m quite certain that in 10 years there’ll be just no such thing as a “digital representative”. It’s going to sound completely superfluous and redundant to talk about digital in any business I think. Particularly when users will have digital as part of their DNA. If you’re the digital representative does that make all the other panel members a bit analogue?Lots of traditional industries started by doing digital as part of their customer engagement, advertising and brand, but now they are having to think about how it will transform their businesses, their core propositions. It’s like changing the engines on an airliner while it’s mid-air. It really is the second industrial revolution, it is on that scale. You’re also George Osborne’s special envoy for fintech. Don’t we have to be wary of innovation in fintech? Didn’t innovating financial products and trading software that very few people understood, let alone knew how to regulate, help to create the financial crash?That’s certainly an interesting view, but it’s wrong to blame technology it was bad judgment. The wrong incentives were placed – the algorithms could have been used to manage risk, to curb excess, to raise alarms. What happened in 2007 was not a lot of fun, the government wouldn’t want to see that happen again. Too many bailouts, too many ripple factors.The appointment was to underscore the interest in seeing innovation in the financial services, and to fly the flag for the UK about how strong the UK is for fintech and not just legacy financial services. You’re also the mayor of London’s digital envoy. What does that involve, helping Boris download apps?[Laughs] I don’t help with the mobile phone but I join him for trade visits. Traditionally most of the people in the business delegations he’s taken on these visits have worked in property, but the mayor’s office recognised that people want to talk about London’s technology scene, so that’s why I went. So you’re working with Dave, George and Boris. You must have a favourite?What I love is that they’re all very interested in what’s happening, they are very cognisant of the impact the technology sector can have. That’s a politician’s answer.[Laughs] Well I spend a lot of time with them. Would you work for Labour’s mayoral candidate Sidiq Khan?I would be happy to continue feeding into the government. You signed a letter supporting the Conservatives at the last election. He might not want you.The letter I signed was reiterating how I believed the coalition government supported the digital economy, I think there’s a lot of people within Labour who recognise the importance of digital, and I’d like to help them. However I did feel that had there been a change of government there would be a learning curve, and there would be a pause in the momentum that had already been established. Do you think politicians regard tech-inspired growth as low-hanging fruit? Easier say than reinvigorating manufacturing or building a “northern powerhouse”?I’d say the two are not mutually exclusive. For example, if you want to revive the automotive industry in Britain you don’t do that without thinking about autonomous vehicles and navigation systems. You’ve worked for Apple, Yahoo etc. You had a successful career in Silicon Valley – why come to London, to a small pond?Used to be, isn’t now. When I came here 11 years ago I loved Silicon Valley, I was there during the dot com boom and benefited and learned a lot; I genuinely thought I’d return in a year. I was three years in the UK before I sold my car in the US. I stayed because I think there’s so much more to be done here, there’s more opportunity and there’s more diversity of people and sectors. Now I regard Silicon Valley as too insular, too much of an echo chamber. Do you think there’s another tech bubble happening in Silicon Valley?I think that valuations are certainly going up, but describing it as a bubble suggests it’s going to pop soon. I think there are certain macro forces that could force a correction, but don’t think tech itself is going to be the correction. You’ve also recently been appointed as chair of Tech City. How come somewhere like Stockholm has managed to produce household name tech companies such as Spotify, Skype and Candy Crush makers King. Stockholm is a smaller city, it doesn’t have the advantages of the English language, financial industry and the cultural draw of London… why can’t we replicate those kind of successes here?I think you’ve given credit to Sweden when actually you’re talking about three Swedish entrepreneurs. Eventually they all came to London to set up their businesses, they don’t stay in Sweden. So to your question, Sweden has produced a number of really talented entrepreneurs, but Britain, I think, made the companies commercial successes. Is the UK’s draw threatened by the rhetoric around immigration and visas?I think the current rhetoric and concern about immigration generally could be damaging to future growth. I appreciate there’s a lot of concern about net migration figures, but believe most concern isn’t about the 20,000 to 30,000 highly skilled migrants coming into the country.My sense is that it’s about a different set of people. And I would like to think that you could address politically one issue without hindering the other, because we do need the skilled migrants to keep coming in in order to grow the sector, to grow every sector. Comments about changing the student visa system so that once someone gets a degree they have to leave the country is very damaging. It’s not logical. Why let someone come here, basicallyeducate them in the wonderful academic system we have, then send them on their way? Why would you not want to harness and cultivate them here? You’ve said that you think the tech sector is more meritocratic than others. It does seem to be dominated by white guys … does this mean they are better at stuff than other people?I’m not saying the sector is perfect but it’s better than others. We’re geeks, we want to solve problems and everything has a solution. I don’t see other sectors trying to adjust so much. In tech we talk about it more, but from a perception point of view I don’t think that helps attract more women to the sector. We sometimes publish stories about women who work in tech and I wonder if by doing so we’re presenting them as the exception?Yes, no woman wants to be the token woman on a panel at an event. If I was reading newspaper articles about how difficult it was for women in tech I would be put off. However there are some great companies that just happen to be founded by women. But you need role models?Yes, and that’s why I don’t shirk from interviews as much as I did. I get really kind emails and Tweets afterwards and realise that people take notice. I presume most of the people who pitch to you for funding are 23-year-old guys?Sure, they’re cut from a narrow cloth, but it’s getting broader and the numbers of women are increasing. You see 10 companies a week pitching for funding. What’s the commonest mistake they make?We invest in people because what they’re pitching is very unlikely to be what they are doing in three or five years. We need to have the confidence that this person will take the right decisions over the next few years to get to the right place in the end. It’s very much like a job interview, even a date. As the saying goes, you can divorce your partner but not your investors. They have a percentage of your company until you wind it up. If someone calls their company the “Uber of…” do your cross them off the list?Not necessarily, sometimes a one-liner is useful. And Uber can mean lots of things. If it’s going to be valued at $40bn, great. 