Matthew Weaver (now) and 
Claire Phipps 
15:13
 That’s it for now. Here’s a summary of today’s events:  
15:03
 Intelligence services posing as Jeremy Corbyn supporters could be behind the abuse and intimidation of MPs on social media in an attempt to “stir up trouble” for the Labour leader, the Unite boss Len McCluskey has suggested, writes Jessica Elgot and Decca Aitkenhead Speaking to the Guardian, the general secretary of the UK’s largest trade union and one of Corbyn’s strongest supporters said he thought “dark practices” would ultimately be uncovered by the 30-year rule, under which classified documents are released into the public domain three decades after being written. Asked if he believed the online abuse of Corbyn’s critics was posted by people trying to discredit his supporters, McCluskey said: “Of course, of course. Do people believe for one second that the security forces are not involved in dark practices? Asked again if he believed that classified documents would eventually reveal the involvement of security forces in Corbyn’s leadership difficulties, McCluskey said: “Well I tell you what, anybody who thinks that that isn’t happening doesn’t live in the same world that I live in.” 
14:55
 Wales First Minister Carwyn Jones has called for the devolved parliaments to have a veto on any Brexit deal agreed by the UK government.  Speaking after the British Irish Council summit in Cardiff, which he hosted, Jones said British government officials at the meeting, including Welsh secretary, Alun Cairns and the Northern Ireland secretary James Brokenshire, had agreed that the devolved nations would be involved in Brexit negotiations.  But Jones told BBC Radio 4’s World at One programme that he wants the UK government to go further. “I think the deal should be approved by all four parliaments,” he said.  Leaders of the devolved nations are keen not to be “done over” by the Westminster government in Brexit negotiation, Jones said.  He said: “People did vote to leave in Wales and that’s not going to change. But the reality is we still have issues we need to resolve. We are just going to lose £600m of European funding.  “A promise was made by some in the leave campaign that that was going to be made up. We have not got that money yet nor the promise of it. “People voted to leave they didn’t vote to be done over financially.” Jones said he was given no financial reassurance from the British government. “We had a commitment to listen which I welcome. We had a committed that the devolved nations would be firmly part of the UK government’s negotiations, I welcome that. But at the moment when we leave, the amount of money that we receive is currently zero.” 
14:25
 McDonnell also defended Corbyn against accusations of bullying and abuse. Speaking to BBC News he said: “It looks as if there has been abuse across the piece. Jeremy has been getting quite a bit, so have I. Jeremy has been moving heaven and earth to say to people abuse is just not acceptable.” The shadow chancellor also criticised Smith for comparing Corbyn to Mike Ashley the under-fire owner of Sports Direct (see earlier).  He said: “I just think that Owen Smith and others should stop attacking Jeremy personally. Owen Smith today compared Jeremy to the owner of Sports Direct. We want a political discussion not personalised discussion like this.” 
14:17
 Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell has accused Philip Hammond of putting the economy on hold by signalling that he might reset fiscal policy in the autumn statement. Responding to the chancellor remarks, McDonnell said: “Philip Hammond couldn’t defend George Osborne’s failed austerity measures in Parliament this week, and now he says he wants to hit the ‘reset’ button on economic policy as Labour have been consistently demanding. “This means that Britain is on hold until Philip Hammond makes up his mind. The Tories clearly had no plan for Brexit and are making it up as they go along. “As today’s survey of business activity shows, our country can’t wait for months on end whilst the Chancellor dithers about what to do instead. We need action now to combat the economic shock of the Tories’ Brexit and their lack of planning.  “The Chancellor needs to immediately reverse the planned cuts to public investment, bring forward shovel-ready projects across the country to help build an economy where no one is left behind, as I set out in my speech on Monday.” 
14:09
 Owen Smith has secured some significant defections from Jeremy Corbyn’s team, including Jo Stevens, the current shadow solicitor general. Smith announced that Stevens has joined Smith’s team as Trade Union adviser. Smith latest supporters also include Neale Coleman who stood down as Corbyn’s head of policy and rebutall in January after not being consulted on proposals to ban some companies paying out dividends.  Coleman will be Smith chief policy advisor. Smith campaign will be chaired by Kate Green, Corbyn’s former shadow minister for women and equalities and co-chaired by former shadow health secretary Heidi Alexander and former energy and climate change secretary Lisa Nandy.  Announcing the names Smith said: “Labour Leadership candidate Owen Smith MP, said: “I served loyally in the Shadow Cabinet alongside Kate, Heidi and Lisa, and witnessed first hand that they are some of the finest members of the new generation of leaders in the Labour Party. “I’m also delighted that Neale Coleman has agreed to come on board as my chief policy adviser. He has a wealth of expertise, including working across major projects in City Hall, where he helped deliver the 2012 Olympics.” 
13:43
 The Irish government and the devolved administrations of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have agreed to continue to discuss the implication of Brexit through the British-Irish council.  After meeting in Cardiff the Irish Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, agreed a joint communique with first minister of Wales Carwyn Jones; Scotland’s first minister Nicola Sturgeon; the first minister of Northern Ireland Arlene Foster together with the deputy first minister Martin McGuinness.  They agreed this rather bland statement:  Ministers collectively reaffirmed the importance of the Council as a unique forum to share views, enhance cooperation and strengthen relationships amongst all member administrations at this time. They reiterated their commitment to facilitating harmonious and mutually beneficial relationships among the people of these islands.  It was agreed that the Council should be fully utilised to ensure that all member administrations work together to this end. The Council also agreed that an update on developments following the referendum result.  A busy morning. Read the outcome of the Extraordinary BIC Summit here: https://t.co/ixHMjmXXfM #BICCARDIFF @fmwales @WelshGovernment Extraordinary BIC Summit on #EUreferendum concludes in Cardiff pic.twitter.com/b8CLCNoGSd 
13:18
 Corbyn’s camp has again insisted that the Labour leader did not threaten to call the father of Labour MP Conor McGinn. “Jeremy did not at any point threaten to call Conor’s dad, nor did he call him,” a spokesman told Politics Home.  New Corbyn line on Conor McGinn: "Jeremy did not at any point threaten to call Conor's dad. nor did he call him." McGinn, who technically still serves as an opposition whip, has not withdrawn the accusation. I've known Jeremy for over a decade. Respected him & worked for him. But I can't tolerate his hypocrisy any longer https://t.co/G8PDcIUSV3 
12:57
 Here’s a roundup of what’s happened so far today: 
12:33
 Peter Walker More on the bullying row from Peter Walker: Jeremy Corbyn has been forced to deny bullying his political opponents after one of his MPs alleged that the Labour leader had threatened to telephone his father amid a row over the party’s direction. Corbyn has denied such a conversation ever took place, but Conor McGinn, the opposition whip, has insisted the leader of party said he would call his Sinn Féin supporting father over complaints about Labour’s direction. The disagreement began with a statement from McGinn, the St Helens North MP since last year and a member of the Labour whips office, posted on Friday morning on the Politics Home website. McGinn said he had been told by fellow whips that after Corbyn had been angered by an interview McGinn gave, he had proposed telephoning the MP’s father, who is a Sinn Féin councillor, to seek his intervention. While the call was never made, McGinn said the suggestion was “shocking and embarrassing, and almost unbelievable”. Speaking to Sky News later, Corbyn denied he had made any threats. “I don’t do any abuse, I don’t do any bullying,” he said. A spokesman for the Labour leader’s office said Corbyn was denying any conversation took place about phoning McGinn’s father. 
11:56
 Jessica Elgot Former pensions minister Ros Altmann has said her time in David Cameron’s government was like being in detention, and said the stress of not being free to speak her mind had affected her health. “It has been the most terrible experience for me,” she told the Jewish Chronicle, saying she felt “micro-controlled” during her 14 months in government. “It affected my health without question. It’s a very uncomfortable experience,” she said. Altmann was a regular media personality as the former director-general of Saga Group, before she was given a peerage. But she said she had been told not to speak to journalists and direct all queries to the press office, who did not understand pensions in the same detail.  “The instructions I had were: ‘If any journalist phones you; then they are always out to trick you and trap you’. What I found difficult was not being able to explain policy to the media; and thereby to the public in an open and honest way; which is what I have always done.”  “Now and again I was very naughty, and I would actually speak to a journalist and take the consequences because I thought: ‘Stuff it, I have had enough of this’. But then you get called in to see the Secretary of State. It’s like being in school, like being in the naughty corner or detention.” Altmann, who earlier this week told the FT she had been “frozen out” of talks over the purchase of Tata Steel despite grave concerns she had over proposed legal changes for the company to shed its pension liability, and the precedent that would set, said she felt she could have more impact outside of government. “As I said to the prime minister, I am not going anywhere. I am still in the Lords and I am still offering to help. I can help as long as legislation goes through, to try and move it in a better direction, lead debates and ask the right questions.” 
11:52
 Smith echoed Theresa May’s attack on Corbyn as an unscrupulous boss. Asked by Sky News about Corbyn’s threats of deselecting rebel MPs, the Labour leadership contender said: “It is not kinder and gentler if you are the boss of an organisation and the workers are unhappy to threaten to give them the sack. It is the sort of thing that you might see at Sports Direct. It is not what you should be expecting in the Labour party.” The criticism follows a similar line of attack against Corbyn by May in her first prime minister’s questions. Asked by Corbyn about job insecurity, she said: “I suspect that many members on the opposition benches might be familiar with an unscrupulous boss – a boss who does not listen to his workers, a boss who requires some of his workers to double their workload and maybe even a boss who exploits the rules to further his own career. Remind you of anyone?” Smith added: “Some of the infighting in Labour is because I suspect people are frustrated that they don’t see a prospect of Labour returning to power and therefore we are turning in on ourselves.” Asked if any of the 180,000 new Labour supporters would vote for him, Smith revealed that one of the new supporters was his mother. “My mam is one of them, so I’m hoping she’s definitely going to vote for me. I’m really pleased that we have got so many people wanting to take part in this contest.”  On bullying he said:  I’ve never been bullied by Jeremy. Jeremy is very softly spoken and very calm in his manner. But the problem is under his leadership there has been a culture of bullying. There has been intolerance and abuse in the Labour party, that we have never seen before. Women in Labour have found themselves subject to awful awful misogynistic abuse, some of our Jewish MPs have been subjected to antisemitic abuse, some of our Asian MPs have been subjected to abuse. None of that can be acceptable in the Labour party.  Jeremy, of course, always says that he does no condone it, but somehow under his leadership we can’t deny the facts that this wasn’t something we saw in the Labour party before Jeremy Corbyn became leader and it’s now become common place in the Labour party. So something has gone badly wrong under his watch. I fundamentally believe both Conor McGinn and Angela Eagle. Neither of them would tell lies about this. Conor has simply said that he understands that Jeremy was proposing to ring his father, who is a Sinn Féin councillor, and felt that was inappropriate as I think anybody would. I would be mortified if Jeremy was proposing to ring up my Dad to complain about me challenging him for the leadership.  This all speaks of a Labour party that is in crisis. We risk splitting the party. If that were to happen we would be destroyed.  
11:22
 Labour leadership challenger Owen Smith has complained of a “culture of bullying” under Jeremy Corbyn’s watch. In an interview with Sky News he said he had no reason to doubt claims made against Corbyn by Labour MPs Conor McGinn and Angela Eagle. 
11:10
 The popularity of Corbyn threatens a paradigm shift in thinking from both the Labour party and, ahem, the Guardian, according author and journalist Jonathan Cook. Writing on his blog, he argues:  The old elites, whether in the Labour parliamentary party or the Guardian editorial offices, sense the danger, even if they lack the necessary awareness to appreciate Corbyn’s significance. They will fight tooth and nail to protect what they have. They will do so even if their efforts create so much anger and resentment they risk unleashing darker political forces. Corbyn’s style of socialism draws on enduring traditions and values – of compassion, community and solidarity – that the young have never really known except in history books. Those values seem very appealing to a generation trapped in the dying days of a deeply atomised, materialist, hyper-competitive world. They want change and Corbyn offers them a path to it. But whatever his critics claim, Corbyn isn’t just a relic of past politics. Despite his age, he is also a very modern figure. He exudes a Zen-like calm, a self-awareness and a self-effacement that inspires those who have been raised in a world of 24-hour narcissism. In these increasingly desperate times, Cobyn’s message is reaching well beyond the young, of course. A paradigm shift doesn’t occur just because the young replace the old. It involves the old coming to accept – however reluctantly – that the young may have found an answer to a question they had forgotten needed answering. Many in the older generation know about solidarity and community. They may have been dazzled by promises of an aspirational lifestyle and the baubles of rampant consumption, but it is slowly dawning on them too that this model has a rapidly approaching sell-by date. Those most wedded to the neoliberal model – the political, economic and media elites – will be the last to be weaned off a system that has so richly rewarded them. They would rather bring the whole house crashing down than give Corbyn and his supporters the chance to repair it. 
10:57
 Patrick Wintour Boris Johnson, the British foreign secretary, has taken issue with the Republican US presidential nominee, Donald Trump, by emphasising the importance of Nato’s doctrine of mutual defence. Trump questioned the doctrine this week when he said he would weigh up whether other Nato members “fulfill their obligations” before deciding whether the US would protect them in the face of external aggression. Johnson, speaking in Washington DC, insisted he was not getting involved in US politics but stressed the UK’s commitment to the policy of mutual defence. He said: “I think that article five in the Nato treaty of 1948, the doctrine of mutual defence, is incredibly important. It’s something that I’ve repeated several times already just in the last week to various other countries, and my counterparts in various other countries around Europe, in the Baltic countries and elsewhere. 
10:49
 Nick Fletcher The UK economy shrank at its fastest rate since the financial crisis of seven years ago, following the vote to leave the European Union, according to a survey of business activity. In the first survey of business confidence since the Brexit referendum, the services sector was particularly hard hit, showing its biggest drop on record. With manufacturing dropping to its lowest level since February 2013, the survey suggests UK GDP could shrink by 0.4% in the third quarter, according to Markit, which compiles the data. Don’t say we didn’t warn you says remain campaigner Angela Eagle. As we warned : BBC News - Brexit plunges UK economy to worst level since 2009, data suggests https://t.co/R6K4bnrzXy 
10:36
 Anushka Asthana Politicians have allowed xenophobia, Islamophobia and antisemitism to enter the mainstream as a result of their toxic and divisive campaigning, according to Lady Warsi. The Conservative peer and former party co-chair told the Guardian she was deeply worried about the current political climate, claiming a surge in “respectable racism” was feeding the far right. “I was still disgusted but more comfortable with the racism of the 70s and 80s that was overt and thuggish, than this new form of respectable xenophobia where it is done in political circles, journalism and academia,” she said. Warsi argued that the EU referendum and London mayoralty campaigns had helped create a climate in which people feel it is acceptable to tell long-established British communities “it’s time for you to leave”. Referring to a spike in hate crime since the 23 June EU vote, she said: “I do not hold anybody who voted for Brexit responsible for the rise in racism; I don’t hold people who believed in Brexit responsible; but I definitely hold politicians, who put out divisive xenophobic messages and posters, responsible because this created the atmosphere in which this thrived.” 
10:28
 An anti Corbyn campaigner has turned to the stop-motion children’s television series Trumpton to mock the Labour leader and his supporters in the Momentum movement. Here’s a sample of Momentum Trumpton tweets: Threats of deselection escalated to include every man, animal, plant & microorganism. Daisy branded as blairite scum pic.twitter.com/2bh3qeTelm Dr Mopp has heard 'big pharma is bad' from the Dear Leader so asks Farmer Bell if he'll grow some drugs for him pic.twitter.com/urUP2Oc997 James Schneider was pleased with the work Momentum had done in aiding his next party destination pic.twitter.com/Rt22vHO0hW 