 As an authentic and beautiful recreation of the many eras of motorsport, Forza Motorsport 5 is a real achievement. It's varied and provides hundreds of meticulously crafted digital cars to lust over in startlingly clean garages. But as an entry into the next generation of console gaming, it often fails to leap as far as you may expect. Still, Forza's strength has always been the thrill of the drive, and Motorsport 5 makes several improvements that manage to provide excitement on the racetrack. Most of this is down to Xbox One's excellent new controller, which, with its new and improved force feedback is capable of providing a real sense of contact with the track – as well as other cars. The triggers vibrate independently as you brake, accelerate and career around circuits, and the increased sensitivity allows for more precise control of the car. Perhaps the game's most impressive revolution is the introduction of Drivatar, a cloud-based system that digitally recreates your driving style to populate other player's games. Right now, the system ranges from great to inconsistent, but still shows real promise even at these early stages. Racing against your friends' Drivatars, you'll see things previously impossible to create with computerised AI. Human errors, poor judgment calls and random acts of aggression all make the track a much more dynamic and dangerous place to be, which in turn makes the racing feel truly on the cusp of next gen.With a couple of hundred cars and just 14 circuits, each with their own variations, Forza 5 is a notable cutback in terms of content. Newcomers such as the legendary Spa Francorchamps and Bathurst, Australia are both thrilling, but the appearance of familiar stalwarts like Sebring, Indianapolis and Laguna Seca means that it won't be long before you've seen all the tracks that Forza 5 has to offer. This isn't to say Forza 5 isn't a sizeable game. The variety of the garage alone makes it compelling for any enthusiast. From sports and touring, to prototype and formula cars, Forza 5 introduces a wider breadth to its disciplines. Then there's the Top Gear content, which while not particularly deep still introduces some history to the proceedings, as well as the car customisation that offers the opportunity for hours of artistic brilliance and tuning tinkering. But compared to the content-heavy Forza 4, with its garage of 400+ motors and couple-dozen tracks, and the fast-paced open-world progression of last year's Forza Horizon, Motorsport 5 often feels like a warm-up rather than the victory parade. It may not be introducing us to the future just yet, but as Xbox One's best launch game, it's giving you an exhilarating tease. The user interface is a huge improvement over the 360, and Kinect now works well, but Microsoft's latest games console is playing catchup against Sony's PlayStation 4 Keith Stuart and Jon Blyth from Official Xbox Magazine playthrough the new Xbox One console's three major launch titles Keith Stuart and Cara Ellison get to grips with Microsoft's next-gen machine, putting the interface, controller and Kinect through their paces A chaotic mess through which you pick your own path, but still one of the strongest titles in the launch line-up, says Simon Parkin  