 And so the duel for the crown changes scene and plot. For three months it has been mostly about the young pretender racing around the globe, serving up a cocktail of delight and displeasure with fearless deeds and high-octane outbursts, while the ailing king languishes in a trough of back pains and loss of motivation. Much more of this and the British No1 spot would change hands from Tim Henman to Andy Murray early next year. But now, for one week at least, Murray needs a rest and Henman will try to make a comeback. He will do so in the old city of Vienna, whose atmosphere and indoor court suit him. It was here in 2000 that Henman captured one of his 11 ATP Tour titles, and it is here that he finds himself in a surprisingly modest field amid a row over Rafael Nadal's late withdrawal. This offers hope for a crucial moment in the survival of his career. The 31-year-old Henman needs a none-too-fierce reintroduction for his first event in six weeks since a dispiriting first-round defeat at the US Open, and, with a draw against a qualifier, he could get it. He could then meet Radek Stepanek, the world No14 whom Murray dumped unceremoniously out of Wimbledon, announcing to the world that something special had arrived. But has Murray taken on too much since then? This week he will be recovering from a strained hamstring, a pulled buttock muscle, a painful ankle, travel weariness, and goodness knows what else after taking the bold but questionable decision to hurtle back to Belgium to compete in a Challenger immediately after facing Roger Federer in a final in Bangkok. His coach Mark Petchey has been defending the 18-year-old's schedule, saying it has "only brought positives and no negatives". Sure, Murray has inched closer to his top-50 year-end target. But if in doing so he damages his effectiveness at Basle next week, it could cost him his first direct entry into a Masters Series event, in Paris next month. Can Henman grab this sudden chance to regain the limelight? He has been practising his characteristic straight-bat comments as well as his serve. "I am much, happier with the way the back has been in practice and I am confident that it will be all right for Vienna," he said. Make no mistake: if it is not, we may not be seeing much more of him. Meanwhile, Lindsay Davenport won the 50th title of her career when she triumphed at the Porsche grand prix in Filderstadt by beating Amélie Mauresmo in the final for the second successive year. The American's 6-2, 6-4 win over the French player put her 10th on the all-time list of WTA Tour title-holders, making it more likely that she will soon overtake Monica Seles, who has three more. It also kept Davenport in with a chance of becoming the year-end world No1 for the second successive year. Although she still claims this achievement is not in her thoughts, yesterday's successful title defence and an unexpected quarter-final defeat for the US Open champion Kim Clijsters certainly kept the issue alive. 