September 8: Pete Sampras rendered his tennis obituaries premature by setting up a mouthwatering final against his old foe Andre Agassi.  September 8: Despite charismatic stars and ratings-topping prominence, women's tennis is facing a future of growing uncertainty, Iain Carter reports from New York.  September 7: Andy Roddick's game was rumbled as Pete Sampras, the old master, recaptured the past, writes Stephen Bierley. Pete Sampras last night beat young compatriot Andy Roddick in just 90 minutes to make the semi-final of the US Open.  September 6: Andre Agassi reached his eigth US open semi-final with a four set victory over Max Miryni. September 5: Amélie Mauresmo reached the semi-finals of the US Open in New York. She beat the No3 seed Jennifer Capriati 4-6, 7-6, 6-3, while Serena Williams, Lleyton Hewitt and Pete Sampras also progressed.  Pete Sampras won his 200th grand slam match to reach the quarter finals of the US Open on Tuesday, answering his growing band of critics in general - and providing a withering reply for Britain's Greg Rusedski in particular.  September 3: Rain continued to disrupt play at the US Open yesterday, but it didn't stop Lindsay Davenport breezing into the last eight. Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose. The annual British bid to take Flushing Meadows by storm ended with a familiar whimper last night as both Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski were knocked out of the US Open in the third round. September 2: America is waiting for its next generation of tennis stars to push aside Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras writes Stephen Bierley. September 1: Serena Williams moved into the last 16 of the US Open by beating Nathalie Dechy 6-1 6-1 in 49 minutes.  September 1: Greg Rusedski is setting his sights on Pete Sampras in the US Open and could push out of the world's top 50 the record winner of grand-slam titles.  August 31:  Britain's No1 sweeps past 6ft 8in Belgian qualifier and now faces the Argentinian Juan Ignacio Chela. August 31: Tim Henman continues to have treatment on his injured right shoulder but has been declared fit for his encounter with big Dick Norman, a 6ft 8in qualifier from Belgium. August 29: Another cake-walk in a cat-suit for Serena Williams, while Jennifer Capriati found savage form to answer the criticisms of Williams Snr. August 29: There's no tennis business like Flushing Meadows business but Greg Rusedski coped well with the pressure to win his opening round match in four sets against the American Alex Kim.  