In his diary, Andy Warhol wrote that he would love to film Danny Fields’ life story. The artist died six weeks later, but now Fields’s life has finally arrived the screen in a new documentary called, Danny Says. You may not have heard of Danny Fields, but you definitely know his friends. As well as hanging out with Warhol, Fields helped launch the Doors into superstardom, palled around with Nico, Edie Sedgwick, and Alice Cooper; was the first person to play the Ramones to Lou Reed; was friends with Linda McCartney despite helping end the Beatles’ touring career; introduced Iggy Pop to David Bowie, and was immortalized in the Ramones tune Danny Says.  For decades, Fields has operated behind the scenes of the music world, forging connections and making stars. “If it weren’t for Danny the world might not have ever heard the Stooges and the Ramones, and we definitely wouldn’t have heard Nico as a solo artist,” said Gillian McCain, co-author of the definitive punk oral history, Please Kill Me, a book dedicated to Fields as “forever the coolest guy in the room”. Danny’s set are really the people that created the world we live in today As the self-described “label freak” at Elektra Records, Fields was almost single-handedly responsible for ushering in the punk era in the US. He managed the Ramones’s early career, and got both the Stooges and the MC5 signed to his label. Despite these impressive credentials, Fields’s name is barely known outside the music business. That might all change thanks to the new documentary, which premiered at SXSW last year and is now open in select theaters and available online.  The film was directed by Brendan Toller, who worked on the film for almost seven years, finishing it mere weeks before it was slated to premiere. He first came across the legend of Fields in the books Please Kill Me and Edie (Jean Stein’s book about Sedgwick, the Warhol muse), but he had a hard time sorting out the fact from the hyperbole. “Danny Fields at Harvard stealing crystal with Edie Sedgwick couldn’t possibly be the same guy being the publicist for the Doors or managing the Ramones,” says Toller. Turns out, though, when it comes to Fields all the rumors are true, which Toller illustrates in the film. The documentary pieces together interviews with Fields and many of his friends including Pop, Cooper, Tommy Ramone, Jonathan Richman, legendary record boss Seymour Stein, Ramones logo designer Arturo Vega, folk singer Judy Collins, MC5’s Wayne Kramer and many more, all interwoven with archival footage, audio recordings, and animation that blends together to help tell the story of this musical influencer. Fields gave Toller access to his personal archives and Toller spent months going through the files, phone recordings, cassette tapes, ephemera, and photographs that Fields had collected over his long career. Professionally, Fields played a variety of roles in the music industry – he was a journalist, editor of 16 magazine and Datebook. When the latter magazine published John Lennon’s quote about the Beatles being bigger than Jesus (from an interview which had passed without comment in London Evening Standard a few months before), it caused outrage throughout America, the pressure nearly breaking up the band and spelling the end of their touring career. Fields also gave bands like the Velvet Underground and the Who some of their earliest press.  He also worked as a publicist, manager, DJ, A&R rep and a photographer who documented the scene he was helping create. He was a noted provocateur who loved swapping bon mots. “When I think about Danny, I think of sitting and laughing with him,” says Lenny Kaye, writer and longtime member of the Patti Smith Band. “He liked to cause a little trouble. He’s a little mischievous.” “There are so many Danny stories, many not fit to print,” says Justin Vivian Bond, the longtime downtown fixture and star of Kiki & Herb, proving the point with an anecdote sadly unsuitable for a family website.  Whatever his role, Fields’s over-arching goal was to bring people together. “That was one of Danny’s things,” says Kaye. “He was a matchmaker, whether it was bringing a band to a record label or putting creative people in the same room – and most of the time that room was Max’s Kansas City’s back room.”  “Danny’s a connector, he’s a fuel line, a place where things are liable to erupt,” says Iggy Pop in the documentary. “I imagine that Danny’s legacy, aside from the brilliant way he’s chosen to live his life, is how he has enhanced the lives of others by being a connector.” “I’ve met so many brilliant and amazing people through Danny,” adds Bond. “I like to think that through these threads and connectivities we have all become better people, artists and contributors to the ongoing conversation. Hopefully these threads will continue to raise human consciousness through art and ideas long after we’re gone.” The film features an incredible cast of characters, which is no real surprise when looking back at Fields’s circle of friends. “Danny’s set are really the people that created the world we live in today,” says Toller. “At least all the good stuff of art, music, and film. These were the revolutionaries of the 60s and 70s that brought about what we know as alternative culture.”  While the documentary looks back at Fields’s career and has the feel of a retrospective to it, according to McCain, who got to know Fields while working on Please Kill Me, Fields is not particularly the reflective type. “He always looks ahead and doesn’t dwell on the past,” says McCain. “Danny’s attitude is ‘the best is yet to come’.” 