Heather’s parents love their old hi-fi, but would like to listen to it in the garden as well. Is there an affordable way of making it, say, Bluetooth-compatible? 
 My parents have an old hi-fi stack system – vinyl, CD and radio. It still works great and the speakers are fab! The only thing is, they want to be able to listen to their CDs in the garden, which is quite a distance. I was thinking of getting them a Bluetooth speaker for the garden, but is there any way of making their hi-fi Bluetooth compatible? Heather There must be a dozen ways to solve this problem, but most of them run into all sorts of ancillary issues, including cost. Is there a handy mains plug in the garden or does the solution have to run from batteries? Will the speakers be left in the garden? If so, they will have to be weatherproof. Most importantly, will your parents be happy to keep going back into the house to change CDs? The obvious solution is to buy a couple of long runs of speaker wire, and install an extra pair of speakers as close as you can get. You could run the speaker cables through the garden using some sort of waterproof plastic conduit. However, laying long cables is disruptive and too much work for most people – hence the popularity of wireless speakers. Also, if the hi-fi amplifier only supports one pair of speakers, you’d need a switch-box to select the outdoor speakers, adding to the cost. Bluetooth is useful because it’s ubiquitous and because it’s a pairing protocol – it simply links two devices, such as a keyboard and a PC, or a smartphone and a loudspeaker. However, Wi-Fi is a better choice for a garden or multi-room music system. First, Wi-Fi works over longer distances. In ball-park terms, Bluetooth has a range of about 10m/30ft whereas Wi-Fi works over 30m/300ft. (For a hi-fi connection, I’d aim for half those distances, or less.) Second, Wi-Fi can deliver much more data. Depending on the version, Bluetooth offers about 800Kbps to 25Mbps whereas, in theory, Wi-Fi can handle from 11Mbps to 1.3Gbps. With Wi-Fi, actual speeds of 20Mbps (802.11g) to 40Mbps (802.11n) or more are achievable. The net result is that Wi-Fi can easily carry a CD-quality digital audio stream – or even a video stream – over a much longer distance than Bluetooth. A traditional hi-fi stack is an analogue sound system. You will therefore need some sort of electronic gizmo to convert the amplifier’s output into a digital stream of wireless data. There doesn’t seem to be a generic name for this type of product, but Neet’s Wi-Fi Wireless Music Receiver is the sort of thing you need. It’s also reasonably priced at Amazon.co.uk at £22.99, discounted from £39.99. The Neet box connects to a hi-fi stack etc via the Y-cable supplied (RCA phono sockets to jack plug), and connects to the mains via a USB port or, more likely, a mains plug-to-USB adapter. This is not supplied, though Neet sells one. After that, the Neet will stream to another Wi-Fi device. It doesn’t need to be connected to a Wi-Fi router. (In passing, if the amp has an S/PDIF port, it would be better to use that than the Y-cable.) Wireless music receivers like the Neet box can, of course, do much more. Most people buy them to stream music from their PC, tablet, smartphone or NAS server to their hi-fi stack, rather than the reverse. Most can also stream some online services. Warning: I haven’t seen or used a Neet Wi-Fi Wireless Music Receiver, so check with the supplier to confirm that it will do what you want, even though – going by the specifications – it should. Wireless speakers are usually “active”, which means they have a built-in amplifier that needs either mains power or batteries. Many of them are, for portability and convenience, single box devices. When there are two separate stereo speakers, the amp may be in one speaker, with a physical cable running to the second speaker. This is cheaper than having an amp in each speaker. Wireless speakers can operate via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi signals, and Bluetooth versions are by far the most popular. They’re the obvious choice if you want to play music from a smartphone or tablet. Wi-Fi speakers run some kind of protocol over the Wi-Fi signal, usually either Apple’s AirPlay or the industry standard DLNA. Sonos – which sells a very popular digital music system – runs its own proprietary network over Wi-Fi, but it would be a very expensive solution to your parents’ problem. From what I can see online, your best bet looks like the CES35 wireless speakers from Connected Essentials. The outfit includes two speakers and a transmitter that plugs into a hi-fi, TV or other source – so you don’t need a Neet or similar box. You also get a remote for volume control. Finally, the speakers are described as being for indoor or outdoor use. They’re not weatherproof and should not be left outside, but they are “designed to be splash proof,” according to the FAQ. These premium wireless speakers are currently on sale on Amazon.co.uk for £79.99, reduced from £149.99, and they have 22 five star reviews out of 32. The CES35 wireless speakers can run from the mains adaptors supplied. Alternatively, each speaker can be powered by six AA batteries. Your budget should therefore include 12 or more rechargeable batteries and a charger. Connected Essentials’ CES30 wireless speakers (£99.99) are a more stylish alternative. Loudspeakers have to move a lot of air around to get noises to your ear, and they work better in rooms than in gardens. So, while it should be possible to extend your parent’s hi-fi system into the garden, the results will not sound as fab. Also, as mentioned, not even a Wi-Fi system will get around the problem of having to go indoors to change the CD or LP, though it would be OK for radio or a streaming service. Under the circumstances, I think it would be better to spend roughly the same amount on a portable stereo, or boombox. Personally, I’d go for a Sony ZS-RS70BTB Wireless DAB Boombox (£98.57). It will play audio CDs, including MP3 and WMA files stored on CD-Rom, and it also includes FM and DAB radios. If your parents have music on a USB stick, the Sony will play it. If they have music on a smartphone or tablet, the Sony will play it via a Bluetooth connection. If they have an MP3 player, the Sony can handle that via a cable that plugs into an audio jack. The Sony ZS-RS70BTB can be plugged into the mains when indoors, but in the garden, it will run off six C-sized LR14 batteries. Again, some rechargeable batteries and a charger will be an extra cost, but will save a lot of money in the long run. An alternative is the Roberts Radio Zoombox2 (£84.90). This has many of the same features – except, for example, CD recording and Bluetooth – but it can play music from an SD card. Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@ 