Who made the best pop of 2014? Women – and here are five of the year’s very best songs to prove the point 
Michael Cragg 
 In a pop world saturated with TV talent show over-singing on the one hand and polite background warbling, usually over a dance track, on the other, Sia’s raw vocal performance on Chandelier stands out by a mile. Restrained and almost nonchalant in the bubbling, Rihannaesque verses, she steadily builds up to the emotional groundswell of the chorus, which crashes in with an almighty, larynx-shredding roar of “I’m gonna swing from the chandelier,” the first and last words drawn out to near breaking point. Chandelier also manages to effortlessly pull off that beautiful pop trick of making a song about something incredibly sad (essentially the self-denial of addiction) sound completely life-affirming. In anyone else’s hands its ubiquity would have meant a million copycat versions in various audition rooms on various TV shows, but Chandelier isn’t open to interpretation – its bloodied beauty lies in its emotional honesty. If I were to hazard a guess I’d say I’ve heard Shake It Off – the lead single from Taylor Swift’s first official pop album, 1989 – nearly as many times as a think-piece about its creator has been written. So quite a lot. On paper, everything about Shake It Off should grate – the parping horns, the knowing lyrics, the entire middle eight spoken word section – and yet, via the sort of pop miracle that usually happens when producer Max Martin is involved, the whole thing hangs together so perfectly and so joyously (those handclaps!) that you want to plaster on a massive toothy grin, throw on a silk varsity jacket and indulge in some awkward wedding dancing. Plus, if for some reason you don’t like it, the song comes with an inbuilt riposte, so carry on with the “hate, hate, hate, hate, hate”, it’s not going to get you anywhere. There’s a moment around the 3:45 mark of Do It Again, the title track from Röyksopp & Robyn’s excellent mini-album, that manages to encapsulate joy, longing, lust and sadness in one blissful 10-second burst. Having bounded out of the traps, all fizzing synths and big effervescent beats, Do It Again simmers down suddenly midway through, Robyn softly intoning “We should not be friends, we’ll just do it again,” as string synths swell around her. As the emotional storm continues to brew, Röyksopp unleash a typically head-spinning sonic concoction before the 3:45 mark hovers into view and Robyn sounds fit to burst as she sings, “don’t care what they say, it hurts so good, I don’t want to stop, I know I should”. It’s a line so brilliantly Robyn in its ability to crystallise myriad emotions that she could take the next three years off and it wouldn’t matter (actually it would, please Robyn release an album in 2015, thanks). In the end it took just two minutes and f49 seconds to give Charli XCX – a pop songwriting goliath after penning hits for the likes of Icona Pop and Iggy Azalea – the proper chart smash her brilliance deserves. Boom Clap doesn’t sound like the groggy synthpop that was smeared across her dark debut, True Romance, or the riot grrrl pop punk of her forthcoming follow-up Sucker, instead it falls somewhere between acoustic singalong and sparkly electropop ballad. Its brilliance lies in its simplicity and directness; it opens with, you guessed it, a literal boom and a clap, while the lyrics strip away any artifice in favour of trying to communicate what pop often tries to put into words; that initial head swimming rush of falling in love (mind you, if your heart does go boom and then clap I’d see a doctor pronto). On her prowling debut single – produced by 20-year-old wunderkind MNEK – Tanika assumes the sexual role typically played out in song by a man. “You call, I come, sunrise I’m gone,” she coos over minimal musical backing, before adding with a shrug: “My love you don’t own, baby we could never be more than fun.” While the verses are minimal, the chorus pops up in riotous 3D, MNEK unleashing a glorious synth wobble and a bowel-shaking beat as Tanika admonishes her suitor in a way only she can: “I told you once, I told you twice, I’m only gonna fuck wit ya life ‘cause I’m bad for you.” Great pop songs are all about the details and there’s a moment at the 2:37 mark involving a brief pause and a joyous “whoo” that elevates the song Also Bad 4 U comes with a bonkers video featuring Tanika sort of flirting with a massive black lorry in an empty warehouse and you don’t get that with Pixie Lott, do you? 