Tracy McVeigh 
 Given the rise of fake news, “post-truth” election campaigns, misleading polls and Michael Gove’s notorious attack on experts, it has been a challenging period for the concept of trust. So step forward Britain’s nurses, now officially the most trusted professionals in the country. The Ipsos Mori 2016 Veracity Index, launched in 1983, annually assesses which roles are most trusted by the public. Included in the index for the first time, nurses are the new champions, trusted even more than doctors. Government ministers, estate agents and journalists remain at the bottom of the league, joined in the wake of the Brexit vote and Donald Trump’s victory by the pollsters who didn’t see either coming. Politicians are trusted by just 15% of respondents – a precipitous 6% drop even on the level of trust they enjoyed this time last year. People were asked to rate 24 job roles in terms of the trustworthiness of those who performed them. Trust in the police, which dropped to a 33-year low of 58% in 2005 – the year of the London bombings and the police shooting of student Jean Charles de Menezes – has climbed to 71%. Journalists were trusted by only 24% of people. Given growing levels of secularisation and a number of high-profile sexual abuse cases, the steep drop over the past three decades of trust in clergy and priests – from 85% in 1983 to 69% today – is perhaps unsurprising. Hairdressers (68%) score higher than lawyers, television newsreaders and charity chief executives. Since the 2008 financial crisis, economists and central bankers have had an image problem, but the 2016 index shows that they are trusted by 48% of people. The stellar 93% rating for nurses was warmly welcomed by Janet Davies, chief executive and general secretary of the Royal College of Nurses. “Nurses are some of the most caring, hardworking staff in the UK and it is very encouraging to see their efforts reflected in the eyes of the public,” she said. “A trusting relationship is absolutely essential in healthcare. As pressures on the health service rise, it’s particularly positive that the public have maintained their faith in the frontline staff working tirelessly for them throughout these difficult times. These results highlight the critical role nurses play in the lives of people in the UK.” The index asks the public to rate the trustworthiness of a selection of professionals – asking whether “you would generally trust them to tell the truth”. In conjunction with the index, Ipsos Mori compiled a joint report with the parenting website Mumsnet, looking at how trust affected women in the runup to the European referendum. In a joint release on the new data, Mumsnet and Gransnet conducted interviews with nearly 100 users, asking leave, remain and undecided voters about issues around trust and political messages during the EU referendum. Gideon Skinner, head of political research at Ipsos Mori, said: “There’s been much discussion about the dawn of a ‘post-truth’ era in politics, but our long-term trends show that politicians have never exactly been the most trusted of professions. Even so, lack of trust clearly played an important part in the EU referendum, with big differences between who remain and leave voters trusted, and the leave campaign mostly winning the argument. Understanding this dynamic is more complicated than simply that people are tired of experts, as this report shows – but which side of the fence you sat on had an impact too.” Polling from just before the June referendum found 46% thought politicians from both campaigns were mostly telling lies; only 19% thought they were mostly telling the truth. Participants from all sides believed that “the media” was biased against their own point of view in the referendum debate. But politicians who held clear views on Europe before the campaign began, such as Nigel Farage and Nick Clegg, were trusted more than Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn, who many voters saw as not being fully sincere in their message. Overall, people struggled to name any person or organisation that they had trusted throughout the campaign. One near-universal trusted source was “people you know” – family and friends – who might not be agreed with, but who were nevertheless trusted. Mumsnet chief executive Justine Roberts said she had some sympathy with politicians: “It’s difficult to be straightforward, honest and transparent – key components of trust – while simultaneously toeing the party line. In today’s world of social media and instant fact-checking, the challenge is to find a new mode of political communication with the prospect of big rewards for those who crack it.” But even if the political earthquakes of this year will keep on shaking the world for some time to come, at least it seems we do trust those experts entrusted with our health. Ipsos Mori interviewed a representative sample of 1,019 adults aged 15-plus across Britain. The interviews were conducted face-to-face between 14 October and 1 November 2016 