 In-form British duo Andy Murray and Greg Rusedski recorded contrasting wins at the RCA Championships in Indianapolis. Murray did not let a late change of opponent upset him when beating American Jesse Witten in straight sets in the first round. The 18-year-old Scot, granted a wild card entry to this ATP Tour event, was looking to build on last week's Challenger Tour win in California. And he progressed in style with a 6-4, 6-2 success over Witten, a lucky loser in qualifying ranked 401 in the world, who took the place of injured Brazilian Flavio Saretta. Rusedski, however, had to hold his nerve to beat South Africa's Wesley Moodie after a trio of tie-breaks in their second-round clash. The seventh seed had to come from a set behind after going down 7-4 in the first tie-break but bounced back to win the next two 9-7 and 7-2. Murray needed only 65 minutes to claim his sixth ATP match win of the season and never trailed in the tie after jumping out to a 3-0 lead in the first set. In the second set, Murray broke in the fifth and seventh games to complete the victory and book a date with 16th-seeded American Mardy Fish in the second round. "For the last month I've played really well," enthused Murray. "I started at Queen's and unfortunately hurt my ankle, then I played well at Wimbledon and won the Challenger in California last week. "I was a bit lethargic today during my match. When we got in yesterday, we had to fly through the night and I didn't get much sleep. I didn't play my best match today but I came through." Rusedski, who captured this title in 2002, fired 21 aces to Moodie's 18 as both players were broken just once in a match which lasted two hours and 24 minutes. The British No2 saved a match point at 6-7 in the second set tie-break. He hit a top-spin lob over Moodie's head then won the next two points to level the match. In the third set, both players exchanged breaks in the fifth and sixth games before going into another tie-break. Rusedski jumped out to a 4-0 lead before Moodie won the next two points but the left-hander closed out the match by winning the last three points. Rusedski will now face either 12th-seeded Dane Kenneth Carlsen or Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, who beat Frenchman Sebastien De Chaunac 1-6, 6-3, 6-4. 