 No one can accuse the English of not being perverse! A number of post-referendum analyses have produced some intriguing results. Many of the areas of the country that were the most obvious beneficiaries of funds from Brussels or the European Investment Bank in Luxembourg voted to leave the European Union. And, although the initial impression that there was a big protest vote in the north seems to have been borne out by further study, it also emerges that the number of Leave voters in the north was easily exceeded by those in the more prosperous south. Bogus claims about “sovereignty”, and ill-judged bleating about “Brussels”, influenced many people I met, even before we were presented with the results. This was one reason why I expressed such nervousness in advance, the other being that most people did not seem to appreciate that, in the last month or so, most of the bets with the bookmakers were on Brexit even though the quoted odds were distorted by the weight of big money that had been placed earlier on Remain: that was before everything in the campaign seemed, from the point of view of us Remainers, to go wrong. Some of the television postmortems have been fascinating. There was a great clip of Kenneth Clarke saying, way back when David Cameron first committed himself to a referendum, how irresponsible and risky this was. And Nick Clegg as good as told us that, between them, Michael Gove and the Sun newspaper had made up the story that the Queen was in favour of Brexit. It has been well established that the leading Brexiters, especially Box-Office Boris, lied their way right through the campaign and thoroughly misled people, contributing to an outbreak of buyer’s remorse. But it is also obvious that there are many older people who manifest not an iota of remorse about the chaos they have helped to create, not least for their grandchildren. They should be ashamed of themselves, and, just because George Osborne has gone and with him so has that “emergency budget”, they should beware of deriving solace from the belief that all those Remain stories were exaggerated. For it is becoming increasingly evident, from analysis at the Bank of England and the even more respected Institute for Fiscal Studies, that the economy is in the process of taking a huge hit from Brexit. Although there have been more soothing words from our new prime minister and chancellor about what may lie ahead in their autumn statement, I do not find the atmosphere in Whitehall quite so soothing. In particular, there is a good deal of nervousness about what may emerge from the Office for Budget Responsibility before the statement. Make no mistake, this is going, to all intents and purposes, to be a budget for an economy that is already suffering severe structural damage, and the OBR report will set the tone. As Theresa May and Philip Hammond settled in before the holidays at Nos 10 and 11, there was a new sense of seriousness. This is not going to be sofa government. They are both technocratic individuals, serious to the point of dullness. The PM has deliberately landed the leading Brexiters – Johnson, David Davis and Liam Fox – with defining what Brexit means, and the atmosphere will not be helped by the fact that there is no love lost between the three of them. Which brings us to all this election talk. Now, I did not get where I am today by making rash forecasts, and words of my late father often come back to me. He was very fond of quoting, as the quintessentially rash forecast, a headline in Lord Beaverbrook’s Daily Express in the late 1930s, proclaiming something to the effect that “there will be no war”. This said, I think the early election talk is way off the mark. Indeed, I am prepared to stick my neck out and say: forget it. It won’t happen. In which context, it is worth noting that those who keep citing Gordon Brown’s decision not to go to the country when he took over from Tony Blair as somehow proving that May should call an election seem unaware of the many precedents for not doing so in such circumstances. When Harold Macmillan took over from Anthony Eden in 1957 he did not feel the need immediately to call an election, and nor did Sir Alec Douglas Home when he in turn took over from Macmillan in 1963. Again, after succeeding Harold Wilson in 1976, James Callaghan soldiered on until 1979, as did John Major, between 1990 and 1992, having succeeded Margaret Thatcher. Brown’s problem was not that he followed historical precedent in not calling an election: his mistake was to allow speculation to build up and then “bottle it”. However, he went on to make an historic contribution to “saving the world” when faced with the financial crisis. It was tragic that his wise, Keynesian response to the crisis was subsequently repudiated by Osborne. Popular anger at the accumulated economic and social damage from the financial crisis and the counterproductive austerity policy was among the factors behind the Brexit vote. The more one reflects on the referendum, the more obvious it becomes that this is one of the most insane episodes in British public life since 1945. The implications for the future of the UK, the EU and the east-west geopolitical balance are ominous. Something, surely, has to give. 