University friend says as a teenager May was ‘irritated’ that Margaret Thatcher beat her to the top job 
Matthew Weaver 
 Theresa May had wanted to be Britain’s first female prime minister and was annoyed when Margaret Thatcher beat her to it, one of her oldest friends has recalled. Pat Frankland, who has known May since they enrolled together at St Hugh’s College, Oxford, in 1974, said May made no secret of her desire to reach the top even as a teenager.  Speaking to the Guardian, Frankland said: “She wanted to be the first woman prime minister back in our Oxford days and she was very irritated when Maggie Thatcher beat her to it. It was just – ‘I wanted to be first and she got there first’. “I met her on our first or second day of college, when she was 17 and I was 18. I was aware of that ambition from the very early days. She used to drag me along to political lectures.”  Thatcher’s election as Tory leader in 1975 made such vaulting ambition seem more realistic for women, Frankland recalled. “Margaret Thatcher made it seem feasible,” she said, “so I didn’t query it as much as I would have done 10 years earlier.” But Frankland, who describes herself as more liberal than May, said Thatcher was not May’s political idol. “I would not say she was Theresa’s heroine. She believes in society, she has got that kind of side to her. I don’t think she’s a Thatcherite. We’ll see,” she said. Frankland said May’s politics and morals were more influenced by her father, Hubert Brasier, who was killed in a car accident shortly after May graduated. “He was a vicar, so she has that Christian kindness. Theresa is basically a decent, kind person. She has got a sense of decency and not doing people down.”  She said May also inherited her father’s humour. “She’s got a strong sense of humour, but I don’t think she puts it out in public life. It’s quite a dry wit, her father was the same.”  Frankland said May’s husband, Philip, who has also been a friend since their Oxford days, could not be more different from Margaret Thatcher’s husband Denis. “They are chalk and cheese. I can’t imagine him being a clubby, drinking, golf type at all. He is very calm, very supportive, he’s behind her all the way. He’ll cope with it, he’s always seemed a well-grounded individual. I’ve never seen them fall out.” Frankland, who has just retired as an economics and business teacher, said her old friend appeared better now than she did when they last met for lunch 18 months ago.  “She was looking tired, but she’s looked better recently. She is so energised by it all,” Frankland said. “I think she’ll fight the UK’s corner very well, because she is persistent and stubborn. She is very honest and trustworthy. We don’t always agree but I trust her. I’m a bit more liberal than she is. I’m a teacher so I’m not a true blue Conservative. I’m a bit of a floating voter, usually Lib Dem. She knows that.”  Frankland texted her congratulations to May on Monday. May texted back to thank her and said she would try to meet up, but warned that could now be difficult.  Asked how May would differ from David Cameron, Frankland said: “I don’t think she will make promises before she should.”  May’s experience at Oxford was also a marked contrast to the Bullingdon Club excesses of Cameron and his friends. Frankland said she and May were too “hard up” to get drunk, but they still enjoyed themselves. “I will always remember coming back together from a party and we walked along the top of a wall outside the Ratcliffe Library together. I was thinking, ‘Someone I followed walking along a wall is prime minister.’ I wouldn’t say we were drunk. We didn’t get drunk, because we didn’t have the money to go and get drunk. We were slightly merry. We were just in high spirits. She went first. You have to have a bit of high spirits, even if you are going to be prime minister.”  