And so farewell Marc Bolland, whose six-year tenure at the helm of Marks & Spencer ended this weekend, ahead of Thursday’s trading update. Bolland (who is from Holland) has had mixed fortunes. Food and online sales are rising, debt has been cut and logistics simplified. But there isn’t a changing-room curtain thick enough to hide the group’s threadbare performance in fashion. One memorable effort to arrest the decline saw Bolland enlist the services of compatriot Marcel Wanders. That designer’s idiosyncratic offering included red leather gloves with one gold-tipped finger. That one didn’t exactly chime with the tastes of the loyal M&S clientele. Predecessor Stuart Rose was a hard act to follow, but such was the M&S remuneration committee’s confidence in Bolland that they handed him a £15m pay package, including a bumper £3.9m signing-on fee. Six years on and M&S seems no closer to winning back the hearts and wallets of clothes shoppers, particularly in women’s fashion. Poor results have been blamed on factors such as weather that was either too wet or too warm, depending on the season. Steve Rowe, Bolland’s anointed heir, has been in charge of fashion since last summer. A trading update that features some good news on that front would help him come flying off the blocks. Flood Re, a not-for-profit scheme aimed at making home insurance affordable for people who live in flood-prone areas, comes into force on Monday after regulators gave it the all-clear. The partnership between government and industry is a response to the anguish and devastation experienced during the winter’s record rainfall by politicians forced to visit flood-hit areas and look concerned while wearing wellies. Under the scheme, Flood Re will take on the flood risk element of home insurance in return for insurers paying a premium based on the property’s council tax band. This will be partly funded by a £180m levy on the insurance industry. When claims are made, the insurers will in turn be able to claim from Flood Re. The government expects that around 350,000 homes will eventually be covered, although not all insurers are taking part. Axa says it will be “proactive” about informing its own customers of the scheme but points out that reinsurance is no substitute for things like flood defences and “of course, the cessation of construction on flood plains”. The last health check on growth in the UK’s dominant service sector, which includes everything from hotels and pubs to insurance and financial advice, made for grim reading. The Markit/Cips purchasing managers index (PMI) for services, released in early March, showed that the sector is experiencing its slowest pace of expansion since March 2013. Given that the catch-all service category now accounts for about 80% of the UK economy, that’s a worrying sign. The result has also pushed back expectations for when the Bank of England would raise interest rates from the record low of 0.5% set in March 2009. Another lacklustre performance when the latest PMI data is released on Tuesday would give real cause for concern that the UK’s recovery from the financial crisis is running out of momentum. Growth in manufacturing has also been subdued – and even if it hadn’t been, the sector is simply too small to take up the slack. This time last month, Markit said uncertainty over Brexit, as well as global economic volatility, was among the factors subduing the index. There is no reason to think that any of those worries will have diminished in the course of a month. 