Peter Bispham 
 Cine-files returns this week with a new format, where we invite our readers to tell us about where they go to watch films. This week: a celebration of a single-auditorium cinema-cum-theatre staffed almost entirely by volunteers. Peter Bispham is a software consultant, and volunteers as a projectionist at the Wallingford Corn Exchange – follow him on Twitter. Location Wallingford: a south Oxfordshire town famed for Midsomer Murders, Agatha Christie and the bell-ringers from Britain's Got Talent. Charlie Brooker spent his formative years here, a fact celebrated in the disapproving stare of his photograph from the wall of a local pub. Building The Corn Exchange is a renovated Grade II listed building, saved from dereliction over 30 years ago by the Sinodun Players amateur dramatics society. Given to the town as a theatre and cinema, it has been run on a voluntary basis ever since – only the cleaner is paid. Films are shown in a single auditorium with traditional plush red seats, and the recent modernisation of the foyer and bar area gives a bright, welcoming feel. Drinks can be taken into the auditorium so long as they are in plastic glasses. This is a recent relaxation of the rules and clearly an exciting development – bar staff have now told me this many times, each with a look of obvious glee in their eyes. Clientele Tends to reflect the demographic of the town and varies according to the movie, but it's fairly safe to assume that the person sitting next to you won't be texting during the show. Although Wallingford does have a young, trendy scene (whatever that means), it seems to go elsewhere. Programme Generally speaking, mainstream films are shown a few weeks after general release, and usually run for a week at a time. Some are repeated due to popular demand and there are also shorter runs of those films slightly further past their release date. 35mm is the usual presentation format, with occasional DVD screenings of more challenging films, including subtitled foreign-language presentations. Films run most evenings, always starting at 7.30pm, with well-attended Saturday matinees the only shows that end before most kids' bedtime. The cinema timetable takes breaks for short periods through the year while plays and pantomimes are staged by the excellent Sinodun Players. Given all they've done, I suppose that's OK. Further comments The pre-show adverts joke, "This place is run by amateurs!" – a fact not apparent if it was not displayed in huge letters on the screen. Within the catchment area of local multiplexes, this "uniplex" more than holds its own by offering high-quality shows with the personal touch. "Good evening," says the house manager as you enter; enthusiastic bar staff count your change back to you; ushers with torches guide you to your seat and stay throughout the show in case of problems. Just like, well, how you might think a cinema should work. If there's a technical hitch, ushers can sound an unnecessarily loud buzzer in the booth to simultaneously alert and punish the projectionists. Confusing film? For Inception last year, discussion sessions were held in the foyer after each show, flipcharts provided, to allow people to speculate on what had just happened. When advertising that particular film, a note was put in the window recommending that perhaps you might just want to come and see it more than once. So kind. Projectionists work on a rota, so each screening of a movie has different operators. Any problems during an evening are jotted down on a whiteboard for the next lot to decipher. Sage-like veterans with near-infinite patience train newcomers in the magic of 35mm projection by setting them loose on a live show, the audience totally oblivious of any ensuing panic. But celluloid is on borrowed time, and in order to maintain access to the latest releases the cinema is considering converting to digital projection this year. Maybe they'll keep 35mm to run in parallel with their shiny new system, thus avoiding the indignity of tear-strewn projectionists chaining themselves to the film platter when the men come to take it away. Take that as a warning! The Twitter view @hayleyirwin I grew up dancing on that stage! The Cinema is cosy & intimate – feels like "going to the pictures" @Hannahlujah123 It's ok – overpriced, little bit cold, but very comfy seats. Nice cosy atmosphere. @adiamond01 too many sweet eaters. They need to build refreshment free cinemas. #STOPSLURPING Is there a cinema you love (or hate) that you think our readers should know about? If you're interested in reviewing a cinema email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk with the subject line "Cine-files." 