Tory leadership candidate compared to machiavellian protagonist of House of Cards Frank Underwood in TV interview 
Anushka Asthana Political editor 
 Michael Gove has been told that people see him as a “political serial killer”, in a bruising interview in which he claimed that his decision to run for the Conservative leadership was a question of putting the country first. The BBC’s Andrew Marr suggested that Gove had deliberately destroyed the political career of his friends David Cameron and Boris Johnson, drawing a comparison to the television character Frank Underwood, the conniving, machiavellian House of Cards protagonist who murders his way to the White House.  Gove said he had withdrawn his support from Johnson “reluctantly and with a heavy heart” but said it was “telling” that the former London mayor had decided to pull out of the race.  “I enjoyed working with Boris during the referendum campaign. I think he has great talents and great abilities, but you need something else to be prime minister. You need that executive authority, that sense of purpose, that clarity. I had hoped that Boris could show that, but in the end it wasn’t there,” he said.  Gove argued that Johnson had the support of the Vote Leave architecture during the referendum, but in the four days leading up to the deadline for Tory leadership nominations he came to realise that Johnson “was not the man and this was not the time”.  The justice secretary said he was standing because the country needed leadership from someone who had argued for Brexit, insisting it was nothing to do with personal ambition or political gains.   Marr hit back by saying people had witnessed the “political assassination of Boris Johnson’s career on live television in the most humiliating circumstances”. He then raised the issue of House of Cards, suggesting people were calling Gove Britain’s Underwood, and asking if he was likely to turn to the camera and say something sinister in the character’s trademark way.  “There are all sorts of people who will say disobliging things about me. I don’t mind that because I would rather people said ‘this is a man who sticks to his principles’ rather than ‘this is a man who is worried about popularity’,” responded Gove. He said he wanted the Conservatives to be the “warriors for the dispossessed” and “tackle the scandal of the undeserving rich” - by cracking down on questionable behaviour in the corporate world.  “There are two Britains,” added Gove, arguing that the country was divided between those who had done well and those left behind. His candidacy was to represent the second group, many of whom had backed Brexit, he said. It came as Gove, Andrea Leadsom and Theresa May all agreed to publish their tax returns during the contest in the name of transparency. Also appearing on The Andrew Marr Show, Leadsom defended herself against accusations of hypocrisy in the Mail on Sunday after it dug up a speech in 2013 where she warned of the economic risks of an EU exit. Leadsom said she had been clear then that the EU needed “fundamental reform” and she believed that Cameron had fallen well short on his negotiation.  She highlighted her real-life experience “running enormous teams, small teams, running start-up businesses. I have also set up charities. I have a passion for early years.”  She said there was no “establishment stitch-up” over Brexit but said that there was a need to get on with it and tell “the world we are open for business”.  “We need to get a grip and make progress,” she added. She said that May was a “superb candidate” but said people had voted to leave so needed someone who had backed that position to lead the effort. The House of Cards author, Michael Dobbs, a former deputy chairman of the Conservative party, criticised the way the leadership contest was developing.  Lord Dobbs told Radio 4’s The World This Weekend: “I keep reminding everybody that House of Cards is fiction and I’m rather fed up with everybody rushing around and seeing it as if they are auditioning for parts in the next series.  “This is serious stuff. We are talking about the future of the country, the future of Europe and somehow it’s been reduced to not House of Cards, more like St Trinian’s.  “It’s like a posh boys’ punch up and, frankly, I and millions of people around the country are rather fed up with it.” 