Users need not worry about the iPhone 6 bending in their pockets quite like the larger iPhone 6 Plus, but other competitors’ products are hardier Users need not worry about the iPhone 6 bending in their pockets quite like the larger iPhone 6 Plus, but other competitors’ products are hardier 
 Testing of the iPhone 6 has shown that it is significantly more resilient to bending, after users began complaining that the larger iPhone 6 Plus was bending in their pockets. Scores of users took to forums, Twitter and technology sites to complain that their brand-new iPhone 6 Plus phones had become bent, just by being carried in front and back trouser pockets. Lewis Hilsenteger from Unbox Therapy took a brand new iPhone 6 and subjected it to the same bending test as the iPhone 6 Plus, which deformed significantly under pressure. “The iPhone 6 is far more durable. It has a smaller footprint, so the material isn’t spanning such a large footprint, so it’s integrity is significantly better,” said Hilsenteger in a video bending the iPhone 6 and other competing smartphones. “Can you still bend it? Probably, but under normal usage I don’t see this ‘bendgate’ issue affecting regular iPhone 6 users in the same way as 6 Plus users.” The testing was not scientific, but the strain across Hilsenteger’s face was obvious, showing how much pressure was required to bend the phone. Hilsenteger also attempted to bend other smartphones, including the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 – a direct competitor to the iPhone 6 Plus – the 2014 Motorola Moto X, the Nokia Lumia 1020 and HTC One M8, which has an aluminium body similar to the new iPhones, and the iPhone 5S. The Motorola Moto X is the most rigid of the new phones, exhibiting no signs of bending or breaking, while the the HTC One M8 does not bend in a similar way to the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, but the screen did flex and come away from the phone’s body temporarily under pressure, as did the Nokia Lumia 1020. “That baby is solid,” exclaimed Hilsenteger while visibly straining to bend the Moto X. “No noises, no movement; that is a robust device.” The iPhone 5S also resisted bending, showing no signs of deformation after testing in the same manner. Previous testing of the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy Note 3 showed that it too bends like the iPhone 6 Plus and remained slightly warped after bending, but not to the same extent as the iPhone 6 Plus. The Note 3 is 2.5mm thicker than the iPhone 6 Plus, which is 7mm thick. “People have been saying that ‘if you bend it, of course it bends’ – but these other devices are proof that’s not necessarily the case as I used the same amount of force and had very little result,” explained Hilsenteger. Whether Apple has a serious issue with the iPhone 6 Plus is uncertain. The company has yet to respond to calls for comment. As smartphones get thinner and bigger, the strain put on them in pockets increases, while their strength decreases as the material is spread thinner over a larger area. Other smartphones have suffered similar issues in the past. Sony’s Xperia Z1, which had a 5in screen and a metal frame, saw users complaining that they bent in pockets, while Samsung Galaxy S4 users had similar complaints, as did BlackBerry Q10 users. “Regular iPhone 6 users, don’t panic; this thing is not going to bend easily, not nearly as easily as the iPhone 6 Plus,” concluded Hilsenteger. • iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper • Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review 