Antonioni's black-and-white masterpiece, featuring the lives of disillusioned Milanese intellectuals, had a profound impact on global cinema, writes Philip French Peter Bradshaw: The Italian master's challenging and difficult L'Avventura was booed at its premiere in Cannes. But nowadays the director gets something far more hurtful: indifference Antonioni's first colour film is a flawed classic in which his muse, Monica Vitti, is haunted by her environment, says Philip French In our writers' favourite film series, Jon Dennis plays it cool with a chilling Michelangelo Antonioni tale set in swinging 60s London Philip French glimpses genius in two early films from a fledgling Antonioni Jonathan Jones: As with visual art, a classic is a classic. While real cineastes will have seen Audiard's A Prophet at the weekend, I compared his earlier work with Haneke's Hidden The death of Michelangelo Antonioni robbed cinema of one of its most influential figures. Martin Scorsese pays his respects to the film-maker who inspired him the most. Two greats of European cinema died last week. The Observer's film critic Philip French looks back on the life and work of directors Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni, who shone a light on the soul of the 20th century and created unforgettable images that have become part of the iconography of modern life. As sad as I was to learn Michelangelo Antonioni, creator of Blowup and L'Avventura, dies in Rome. A true innovator of the European art-house who took films across new frontiers of expression. Philip French: There's been a recent revival of Portmanteau movies. Both Destricted with seven contributors, and this week's Eros with three are unsatisfactory, but Eros is by some way the better. Philip French: The Passenger (aka Professione: Reporter), a paranoid thriller that draws on Conrad, Pirandello, Borges and Greene, was Michelangelo Antonioni's third film in English and arguably his last great picture. It gave Jack Nicholson a major role as a television reporter at the end of his tether while covering a complicated civil war in Africa. Philip French: A fascinating exhibition explores the cool mystery of Antonioni's iconic film Blow-Up. Mark Kermode: Since leading man Jack Nicholson acquired the rights to Antonioni's 1975 identity-swap oddity, screenings have become increasingly rare. 