Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond say they have not been told how many people are watching The Grand Tour. The new show from the former Top Gear trio debuted on 18 November, and Amazon, which has extended its streaming service to 200 countries, has said only that “millions” of people streamed the first episode.  Speaking at the launch of their new social media project for petrolheads, DriveTribe, Clarkson said Amazon was keeping the Grand Tour numbers even from its stars. “I don’t know. You just don’t know,” he said. “They did say millions.” May added: “They won’t tell us. That’s the rules and they really won’t.” Two episodes of the Grand Tour have been released and filming for the first series is almost complete, with only three more “studio” segments – each filmed in a tent at a different location – to be recorded. Reports have suggested Amazon paid $160m (£130m) for three series, but Clarkson said the numbers being “bandied about” were overinflated. “Nobody has got it even remotely close,” he said. “There’s a figure of $160m invented by the Daily Mail, and now $250m from Netflix, and they are just nonsense.” Hammond said working with Amazon on The Grand Tour had helped inspire them to start DriveTribe. “We were moving into new ways of putting content in front of people,” he said. “And as we got more and more into it, and spoke to more people, we realised that there was a bigger and bigger opportunity, [where] people who have a declared interest in cars, which is a very broad spectrum, could come and find other likeminded people.” The site, which claims to have attracted 1,500 contributors in its pre-launch phase, encourages users to set up their own “tribes” around different topics and follow users including Clarkson, May and Hammond.  Its launch came on the same day that some of the world’s largest football clubs announced their own foray into social networking with Dugout.com, and Clarkson said there were similarities in the way football fans and car enthusiasts approached their obsessions online. “A Chelsea site, if somebody comes along and says ‘I like football I support Arsenal’, [the response is:] ‘Get out!’ There’s that sort of mentality,” he said. “But now we have this thing, everybody can come. Some tribes will overlap, some won’t, some will be sort of competing, all of which is good and healthy and exactly what we want to try and create.” The three had invested heavily in DriveTribe with their own money, he said. “I’ve had to explain to the children we are selling them for medical experiments,” he joked. “We are heavily invested. Properly heavily invested.” This month Clarkson was involved in an argument with a Stuttgart airport worker whom he claimed had said “Fuck you, I’m Argentinian!” during a row over why the three presenters were not being allowed on to a flight to London. Asked what he thought of the airport’s claim that the worker was Spanish, and suggestions that Clarkson’s account of what happened was false, he said: “We were there, [Hammond] and I heard it. You want to call us liars, we’re not, move on. Not just he and I, quite a few people heard it … I know what he said.” 