 That’s it from me Thank you for your company today and please excuse me while I go and take a lie down in a cool room. That game was everything we could have hoped for and more; not the high-scoring shoot-out that we expected but a low-scoring thriller of multiple mood swings.  This was World Cup cricket at its very best and let’s be honest, the kind of kick in the pants this tournament needed from a full member nation perspective. The associates have taken the plaudits at this tournament but this was a genuine World Cup classic between two of the sides most fancied to take it out. It’s been my absolute pleasure bringing you this encounter and make sure you stop by for more live World Cup action throughout the tournament.  
 This pretty much sums up Australia’s day: "Our batting was horrendous, to put it politely. And Mitchell Starc was a genius" - Michael Clarke sums it up... 
 How do even begin to assess that game? Does it tell us a lot about these sides? Does it tell us nothing? Does anyone really care after a magnificent finish like that?  Trent Boult is our man of the match, by the way. You could have given it to Starc, McCullum or Williamson, too. The latter played a remarkable shot to win it at the death.  A summary of sorts: Australia was flying at 80-1 but thanks to Vettori and Boult, fell into one of the worst holes they’ve ever encountered in ODI cricket. They lost 8-26 as Vettori (2-41 off 10) and Boult (5-27 off 10) ripped the heart out of the middle order. Only Brad Haddin’s fighting 43 at the end made a game of it. Australia’s 151 looked very gettable. When it was New Zealand’s turn to bat, it looked like Brendan McCullum might polish them off before the lunch break. He was struck a nasty blow to the arm by Mitchell Johnson and departed for a manic, stroke-laden 50 from 24 deliveries but after he fell, New Zealand looked vulnerable. Corey Anderson departed for 26 just as he was starting to look comfortable and it was just bedlam from there - the Kiwis lost 5-15 as Mitchell Starc ran riot.  Somehow, amid all of that carnage, Williamson had the stillness of mind to calmly and confidently biff a straight six off the bowling of Pat Cummins to drag his side home by one wicket. I’m describing this matter-of-factly but it was a frenetic and thrilling sight, this game - both sides could have taken it out. This leaves the Kiwis undefeated but given the way it unfolded, you wonder how much confidence either side could take from their respective batting displays.  
 I’ve run out of words, I really have.. Don’t want to get carried away, but I think that was as exciting as one of the associate games. #NZvAUS #CWC15 What a game of cricket that was!!!! Unbelievable stuff from Boult, Stark, McCullum and Williamson. Can't remember seeing a better one Ball bearings from Williamson. Imagine how hard he would have been slammed if he'd holed out. #CWC15 Where's Trevor Chappell when you need him? #NZvAUS 
 This is just unbelievable stuff. Kane Williamson is an absolute hero. Without flinching, he steps back to Cummins’ first delivery and just hammers it over the bowlers’ head for a huge six to win the game. What a shot! The crowd go wild. They jump in the air. Mitchell Starc almost cries. Pat Cummins probably will. The Kiwis have won it by a wicket and Eden Park is in raptures. What an epic finish to a crazy, wonderful game of World Cup cricket! 
  23rd over: New Zealand 146-9 (Williamson 38, Boult 0) Boult keeps out the hat-trick ball against all odds and must survive one more Starc thunderbolt to hand the strike back to Williamson. It’s fast, it’s yorker legth but it’s well wide of off-stump. Starc is shattered but he shouldn’t be - he’s bowled like a dream to haul Australia back into this beautiful, completely insane game of cricket at Eden Park.  
 MITCHELL STARC IS BOWLING OUT OF HIS MIND! Tim Southee is no mug with the bat but he’s been cleansed first ball here and with 6 runs still needed, Trent Boult will face up to a hat-trick ball and the possiblity of being the man whose wicket signals Kiwi agony. What a game of cricket! What a spell of bowling from Starc! My house could be on fire and I wouldn’t even be able to tell right now. It’s crazy stuff.  
 Williamson chooses to trust his partner here and bunts a single, which cuts the target to 6 runs but also exposes Milne to four balls of Mitchell Starc’s hooping swing. How good are low-scoring ODIs? Holy hell... Starc’s very first delivery to Milne is a gem. It’s fast, swings in viciously and castles him. What has Williamson done? The Aussies might actually pull this off.  
 22nd over: New Zealand 145-7 (Williamson 38, Milne 0) Cummins needs to apply pressure here but he strays with his first ball of the over, which allows Williamson to chip two over mid-wicket and then run a single down to third man. Next up Cummins lets fly with a wild bouncer that’s rightly called a wide and Vettori pulls him for two more from the follow-up. But then...a wicket. Cummins bowls a rank full toss and Vettori just helps it on its way to Dave Warner at mid on. Surely not? They need 7 more runs, the New Zealanders. Milne takes a decent swipe at Cummins’ final delivery but thankfully for him doesn’t feather an edge. 
 Just as it looked like the threat of Starc was dissipating, he produces an absolute rip-snorter to remove Ronchi - a fast, in-swerving bouncer that has the batsman weaving out of the way but also feathering an edge through to Haddin. Can Australia pull this off? Starc will have to do it all... The Kiwis need 13 runs and the Aussies 4 wickets.  
 20th over: New Zealand 137-5 (Williamson 33, Ronchi 6) Luke Ronchi gets straight to work, lofting Maxwell for a handsome straight six and getting the crowd on its feet. The Kiwis need 15 to win.  
 We get some spin from Maxwell and that brings about an immediate dismissal when Anderson slogs across the line and sends a low catch to Pat Cummins at mid on. Ooh, this just got a little more interesting. The Kiwis still need 21 runs and now there’ll be a new batsman at the crease with Williamson. Or will there? Corey Anderson is hanging around because there is some doubt about the catch and whether it carried all the way to Cummins. The crowd’s certainly not happy and the longer it all goes on, the further towards the middle Adnerson walks. He was over the rope and heading for the showers only moments ago. It’s out! No idea how they could conclusively say so but Anderson is gone.  
 19th over: New Zealand 130-4 (Williamson 33, Anderson 26) We’re in the last chance saloon now as Starc returns to the attack. He’s been magnificent so far and a constant threat but he desperatly needs to add to his 3 wickets for Australia to pull something off. The left-armer is still swinging it around noticeably but he’s also lost a bit of his earlier zip. He has an LBW shout late in the over but it’s turned down so the Aussies review. It’s too far down leg to overturn. Bad luck Mitch.  
 18th over: New Zealand 129-4 (Williamson 32, Anderson 26) Mitch Marsh appears now to replace Cummins and not surprisingly, his first 124kmph half-tracker is the kind of loosener that appeals to Kane Williamson. It’s flogged out to the deep mid wicket boundary and the Aussies look a little deflated at the moment. Three balls later Williamson launches all of his weight into some more short, wide filth from Marsh and cracks four over cover.  There’s only 23 runs left to pick off now for the Kiwis. They’d really have to self-destruct to lose from here.  
 17th over: New Zealand 118-4 (Williamson 21, Anderson 26) Somewhat surprisingly given his profligacy so far today and the alternative bowling options at the disposal of Michael Clarke, Johnson is given one last chance to get it right. He does that in a manner of speaking as he produces a maiden, but there’s still no threat of a wicket.  
 16th over: New Zealand 118-4 (Williamson 21, Anderson 26) Now Williamson gets in on the act. He’s given both legth and width to work with outside off stump and clatters a boundary over the head of Michael Clakre at short cover. That was streaky, but it was also decisive. Cummins is on notice. Is it time for spin? Who would bowl it? Anderson finishes the over by biffing three over cover. Just 34 runs are needed now for New Zealand.  If NZ could pick 1: victory today or 2: a fit McCullum for the rest of the tournament which would it be? Hopefully hypothetical. 
 15th over: New Zealand 108-4 (Williamson 16, Anderson 21) Johnson’s main contribution today - he has 0-52 off 4 overs - was to rough up Brendan McCullum and he’s back now to do the same to Corey Anderson. He starts with a rather predictable bouncer that doesn’t quite get up high enough and though Anderson’s straight swat-pull comes with the risk of a return catch, it flies away for four. Far less convicing is the french-cut follow-up that hits the fine leg rope.  Oh dear, Johnson’s next ball gets pumped into the stands. All of a sudden Anderson has hit his straps, pulling another short one for a glorious six over deep mid wicket. Anderson looks a batsman again now and Johnson a vulnerable bowler. The Kiwi clips two to leg to finish a very productive over.  That’s 0-68 from 5 overs now for Johnson. The Kiwis need only 44 runs.  
 14th over: New Zealand 92-4 (Williamson 16, Anderson 5) Runs have really dried up now as Starc and Cummins continue to press for wickets. This over it’s not until the fourth delivery that Williamson has some width to work with and he cuts out to deep cover for two. New Zealand have an age to pick off these runs, of course, and it looks like they might take it if they’re to get there safely.  
 13th over: New Zealand 90-4 (Williamson 14, Anderson 5) Is Anderson doubting himself a little against this extreme pace? Even when Starc bowls a couple of bad balls here - one a half-tracker and the other a leg-side full toss - the New Zealand number six fails to cash in. Those failures seem to draw unnecessary risks too and he’s looking to pull everything just to try and claw back some psychological edge. He does survive though and that is all New Zealand require for the moment.  Did not expect a low scoring thriller. Boundaries now looking massive... 
 12th over: New Zealand 89-4 (Williamson 14, Anderson 5) Things improve a little for the Kiwis in this over. Williamson always looks commanding off the back foot and facing up to Cummins here he steps back and cracks a quite wonderful drive backward of point to pick up four.  63 more runs and the Kiwis are home, 6 more wickets and the Aussies have pulled off a Ronnie Biggs level heist.  
 11th over: New Zealand 83-4 (Williamson 9, Anderson 4) Anderson looks entirely unconvincing here, playing down the wrong line to Starc and only just keeping out a yorker that he jams to leg for two. That’s the only score of the Starc over.  Reader Richard Stanton has faith in the Kiwis. “Who will prevail? NZ. There is no scoreboard pressure on NZ. Aus fell apart from the moment Dan Vittori came in to bowl. A final of NZ v SA I reckon. They’re the form sides.” “Does this officially count as AUS disintegration?” asks Mahendra Killedar. “I mean physical not mental...”  It’s getting there, Mahendra. I’d rate it a 7.2 on the Steve Waugh Mental Disintegration Index.  
 10th over: New Zealand 81-4 (Williamson 9, Anderson 2) Corey Anderson is not exactly a nurdler, but you get the sense he’d be better getting his eye in before launching the kind of wild heave he plays off Cummins here. That’s a fresh air shot and the next rears on him, spitting awkwardly and flying off the slpice to clear the slips cordon.  The Aussies are right in this game now and their two pacemen causing all sorts of troubles to the Kiwi batsmen. Cummins is pushing that 150kmph mark that Milne was reaching before lunch and even Williamson is jumping at shadows.  Starc bowled at one stump throughout the tea break. He hit it more than he missed. #cwc2015 
 9th over: New Zealand 80-4 (Williamson 9, Anderson 1) Corey Anderson arrives with a smile that probably betrays the nerves he’s feeling right now. With three slips in place Starc’s hat-trick ball is straight but well defended and Anderson gets off strike from the next. Starc’s over finishes with a superb in-swinging yorker that Williamson only just manages to lay bat on. If anyone’s going to win this game for Australia here, it’s Starc. He’s bowling like a dream.  
 Starc is on a hat-trick! This game continues to go off the rails at 200 miles per hour. First up to the new man Grant Elliott he steams in and unleashes a lethal in-swinger that beats the batsman all ends up and crashes into the stumps. What a start for the Aussies after the lunch break! 
 And we’re back What is going to happen in this second session? New Zealand should be starting their innings now but insetad they’re 79-3 chasing Australia’s paltry 151. All of a sudden Brad Haddin’s 43 and the 45-run last wicket stand he shared with Pat Cummins seems so important. New Zealand couldn’t crumble though, could they? They lost seven wickets chasing down a low score against Scotland, might Australia get them even more bother? Anchoring Nine’s coverage in a quite sensational pink and purple tie, Ian Chappell says it was a comibination of good bowling and bad batting that undid Australia. “He’s courageous as a captain in the way he attacks,” says Chappell of Brendan McCullum, who was also physically brave today. McCullum is back in the sheds now nursing a sore and swollen arm after being struck by Mitchell Johnson, which also shapes as a concern for the Kiwis heading into the rest of the tournament.  
 We’ll be back live shortly, but it’s time to grab a drink I don’t even smoke, but I think I need one. That was just crazy cricket in that first session. When we return, the Kiwis need 73 runs and the Aussies six wickets. Who will prevail? It's not actually against the rules to get them in ones is it? @rustyjacko 
 Well, well, well. Just as Australia faltered at the 80-run mark, New Zealand are experiencing a wobble of their own on 79 as Taylor now goes to a gem of a delivery from Starc. He can’t buy a run at the moment, Taylor, and this one just ripped through the gate as he tried to drive. A jaffa.  Needless to say we have a game on our hands as the players of both teams depart for lunch. The Aussies probably want to stay out there the way the momentum’s swung in the last 10 minutes.  Updated
 8th over: New Zealand 79-2 (Williamson 9, Taylor 1) As the Cummins over ends - and that wicket came when he rans his fingers over a canny slower ball, it should be noted - Ross Taylor arrives at the crease looking for some confidence-boosting runs.  
 Where McCullum’s batting should be marketed in a brown paper bag, Williamson’s might sit on the classics shelf. Cummins is on for his first ball and Williamson gets on the back foot and drives him for the most beautiful single of the day. Cummins follows that by attempting to bounce McCullum but it baloons high and wide towards fine leg for five wides.  The way Cummins lands he’s always a chance to take a tumble and his second legal delivery here sees his legs slide out underneath him.“He’s gonna do it one day, he’s gonna snap his leg in half” says an uncharacteristically evocative Brett Lee. With friends like that...  But then...success! McCullum steps towards leg and clatters the ball in the dirction of the man at mid off but Starc simply steps across a metre and completes a simple catch. What a knock by McCullum. Take a bow, sir.  