 A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team [Google Glass wearer Nick] Starr goes on to say that "I would love an explanation, apology, clarification, and if the staff member was in the wrong and lost the owner money last night and also future income as well, that this income be deducted from her pay or her termination." Starr is clearly miffed. "I think the crazy part is that this guy comes into a diner," [restaurant owner David] Meinert tells me, "and is asked to change his behaviour in a way that's our right to ask of him. He doesn't like it, so he tries to get the server fired. It's a total [expletive] move." Meinert also tells me that there had been a staff meeting just a few days prior to the incident where Glass was specifically addressed as being a forbidden item. Lajeunesse points out that Glass isn't like a cellphone or other camera, where people can easily tell when they're being filmed. "It's about privacy," he says. "It's one thing to take out a camera and capture a moment, people see you doing it, they have a chance to step out if the want to. With glass people don't have a chance to do that. We want our customers to feel comfortable, not like they're being watched." Kate Craig-Wood:  In early October I bought myself a SmartWatch 2. You can see my initial review here. Six weeks on, and I have a new one. Here is why... Bluetooth problems not the worst of it. The current BOM [bill of materials] cost could be $40-50, which would also put it out of range for these applications. Finally, the SoC power consumption would likely be too high. Consequently, the most logical platform is Apple TV. Samsung has used gesture sensing by built-in webcam for their smart TVs since 2012, but its performance and utility are not quite acceptable yet, and they use 2D based instead of 3D depth sensing. If Apple uses structured light in a future TV product, it would be the first to enable 3D gesture sensing. Apple would likely encourage developers to design apps suitable for gesture sensing on Apple TV, enabling it to expand the iPad to the big screen in the living room, moving beyond video. However, this would be more likely in a set-top box Apple TV than in a TV. Attractive flat panel TV designs do not have enough space to accommodate structured light elements (light source, CMOS image sensor and SoC PCB assembly); in addition, the use of active light requires the source and sensor to be in the front of the set. Dean Takahashi:  Indeed, Clumsy Ninja is a wonderfully funny and warm character. You can tickle him by rubbing the touchscreen. You can pick him up and toss him into a basketball hoop. He gets slightly annoyed at that, but he doesn't express any serious attitude. Reil picked him up and tossed him to the hoop, and he grabbed on to it. That was an act of self-preservation on Clumsy Ninja's part. It was not a canned animation. "Everything is physically accurate," Reil said. "You can toss him and he'll land on a box. We got away from all of the shackles of animation." The significance of that autonomous action can't be understated. Q: How profitable were the banned ads for developers in your experience?  Carr: Despite the criticism of these ads, they were a very effective marketing tool when implemented in such a way as not to disturb users during their app usage. Users then had the opportunity to review these ads when it was convenient for them, which meant much higher response rates and therefore higher returns for both developers and advertisers. ECPMs [effective payment per thousand views] differed across regions etc, but averaged between $4-$7. Q: Opinions are split on the issue, but a number of devs we spoke to agree push notification ads were spammy and not welcomed by users. What's Leadbolt's take on this? Carr: The media did push the notion of these ads as spammy, but I believe that was more due to uncontrolled networks in the industry allowing the developers to abuse this format. When you allow an application to push notifications too often or interrupt the user experience it will certainly be unwelcome and considered as spammy. On the other hand, if the message is very directed and focused and infrequent but delivers value to the end users, it will be appreciated. Yeah, they're spammy. "Uncontrolled networks" == spam. Nicholas Carr:  The Q400 [aircraft] was well into its approach to the Buffalo airport, its landing gear down, its wing flaps out, when the pilot's control yoke began to shudder noisily, a signal that the plane was losing lift and risked going into an aerodynamic stall. The autopilot disconnected, and the captain took over the controls. He reacted quickly, but he did precisely the wrong thing: he jerked back on the yoke, lifting the plane's nose and reducing its airspeed, instead of pushing the yoke forward to gain velocity. Rather than preventing a stall, Renslow's action caused one. The question is, why?  After a much hyped 1 November launch, Apple Inc.'s iPhone 5S and 5C have captured the imagination of smartphone lovers in India. The new Apple buyback offer as well as lucrative deals from telecom operators like Reliance, Airtel and Vodafone have added to the sales. On the other hand, Samsung Electronics' new Galaxy S4 and Galaxy Gear combo does not seem to have caught the Indian buyer's fancy. Then again, the S4 has been on sale in India since April. "Touch penetration in notebooks was modest in the first half of the year, and we expect a slight increase to 10% in the second half [of 2013]. Premium pricing and a lack of compelling uses for touch screens on notebooks continue to hinder adoption," said Richard Shim, senior analyst at NPD DisplaySearch. "As touch interfaces become increasingly common across all mobile devices, however, it is just a matter of time before the technology also becomes more prevalent in notebooks." Factors encouraging adoption include Intel's mandate that third-generation Ultrabooks include touch, as well as hybrids, sliders, convertibles, and other new touch-friendly form factors that will become more common in the years to come. "A touch panel on a clamshell notebook seems less intuitive than it does on a tablet-like device, which is better suited to touch interactions," according to Shim. No kidding. The expectation is that by 2017 cumulative shipments of touchscreen notebooks 2013-2017 will total 208m - in an installed base of 1.5bn PCs. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service. 