Leading shares have dropped sharply, with banking shares among the main losers after continuing concerns about Deutsche Bank. But outsourcing group Capita takes the wooden spoon, down another 27p or nearly 4% to 671p as analysts issued negative notes in the wake of Thursday’s shock profit warning which lead to  a near 27% slump in the shares. The company blamed Brexit jitters, problems with the London congestion charge contract and a contractual dispute with the Co-operative Bank. Analysts at Stifel said: It is clear from [the] profit warning that some of Capita’s woes are deep-rooted and structural in nature. This will take time to rectify. On our revised estimates and at the intraday price, the shares are trading on little more than 10 times 2017 estimated earnings, at a deep discount to the 10 year through the cycle average of 16.8 times. However, given the scale of Capita’s problems, the risk of litigation, restructuring costs still to be defined and possible action to strengthen the balance sheet, we think this is reasonable with the share price likely to be volatile. Investec said: Given the sharp de-rating, instinctively we want to turn more positive on the stock, particularly as on our forecasts the company will delever. However, the lack of top-line visibility and possible risk of a capital raise gives an asymmetric pay-off and we remain at hold with a lower 750p target price. Shore Capital moved from hold to sell: Whilst we have harboured concerns in our research for some time over the level of growth driven by acquisitions, sustainable margins and growing debt levels, we were nonetheless surprised by the timing of yesterday’s profits warning. The specific’s and ‘one-offs’ that Capita point to as being primarily responsible only point to some of the issues that the group faces in our view, but these still point to some worrying strategic failures. We are particularly concerned by what we consider to be under-investment in organic development, such as in the education platform and addressing the digital opportunity in recruitment and sourcing – has this been at the expense of prioritising acquisitive growth? We view Capita as a services conglomerate following the disparate acquisitive activity of the last several years (we note the group has acquired around £2.0bn in revenue since 2010, with revised revenues forecast for this year now at £4.9n, group revenues in 2011 were £2.9bn). We believe that effective service delivery needs focus, but it can be scaled, as Capita has shown in the past. Looking to ‘Brexit’ as being a cause of Capita’s woes, our view is that this has likely hasted and accelerated trends already in play in the business. Michael Donnelly at Panmure Gordon said: Our anti-consensus sell case on Capita in January 2016 was predicated on four concerns that, we contested, made the shares far riskier than at any point hitherto. We said that Capita felt “increasingly like the last man standing”. Not anymore. The shares fell throughout the first half of 2016, leading us, incorrectly, to believe that those concerns might be in the price. We were wrong. As, it would appear, was almost everyone else. We sat through the excruciating, hour-long analyst call post the profit warning yesterday; a call that addressed precisely none of these four issues. The four issues, according to Panmure, are balance sheet concerns with possible write-downs and the prospect of a cash call; the quality of earnings; concerns about acquisitions including recent reseller purchase Trustmarque (Donnelly said: “The conference call led us to believe that the resellers causing the problem were those acquired since 2008 and not Trustmarque acquisition - so the Trustmarque warning, presumably, has yet to come.”); and a too-high valuation. Overall the FTSE 100 is down 85.10 points at 6834.32 despite better than expected UK GDP figures. Among the banking shares caught in the slipstream of Deutsche Bank’s decline, Barclays is down 5.65p at 161.65p while Lloyds Banking Group is 1.38p lower at 54.11p and Royal Bank of Scotland has fallen 4.4p to 172.7p. Mining shares are also weaker, with Glencore down 6.95p at 208.9p and Anglo American 27.8p lower at 952.3p. But precious metal miners are bucking the trend as investors seek havens amid the declines. Randgold Resources has risen 100p to £79.85 while Fresnillo is up 16p at £18.26. 