Jerwood Theatre Upstairs, Royal Court, LondonThe kids are more than all right in this marvellous send-up of positive thinking in a primary school Jerwood Theatre Upstairs, Royal Court, LondonThe kids are more than all right in this marvellous send-up of positive thinking in a primary school 
Kate Kellaway 
 Stepping into the Theatre Upstairs is a return to primary school, thanks to Chloe Lambard’s convincing set: named pegs, collages (“4N loves autumn”) and a reading corner. The children (eight- and nine-year-olds) give marvellous, unselfconscious performances in Vicky Featherstone’s gripping production of God Bless the Child. We, the audience, turn into school inspectors. School can be a theatre of the absurd too. Molly Davies has worked as a teacher and this is an entertaining, satisfying satire on formulaic teaching and mindlessly positive thinking. Castlegrave Community Primary school is putting into practice “Badger Do Best” – a rigid scheme (with toy badger superintending) to improve children’s behaviour. “Behaviour is big at the moment,” bleats beleaguered head Ms Evitt (Nikki Amuka-Bird). Her agenda is far from hidden: if the author of Badger Do Best approves, they will get funding to build an annexe. Ony Uhiara plays Ms Newsome with floundering gaiety. Her class sings – in unison – about individuality. But one child: Louie (beautifully clear Nancy Allsop) is already starting to mutiny. Amanda Abbington is excellent as Sali Rayner, inventor of the scheme – cringe-makingly bogus. The only person to embody naturalness is old-school classroom assistant Mrs Bradley (empathetic Julia Hesmondhalgh) complete with baggy cardy and sense of humour. It a thoroughly enjoyable evening and Davies has bags of talent – but makes her case too well, too soon. There is not much of a developing argument. She needs to ask herself: “What would you do differently next time, badger?” • God Bless the Child is at the Jerwood Theatre Upstairs, Royal Court, London SW1 until 20 December Mark Rylance recalls Shakespearean traditions and his first encounters with the Bard, from a school production of Macbeth to watching Olivier's Richard III on TV and seeing Judi Dench at the RSC in the 70s These are the locations for the opening scenes in 10 of the Bard's plays. Match the setting to the play 