 Peter Molyneux may be enduring a rough month of criticism from players and journalists over his Kickstarter-funded Godus game, but fellow crowdfundee Tim Schafer has given the veteran designer his support. Schafer, whose company Double Fine raised $3.3m on Kickstarter in 2012 to make its Broken Age adventure game, sent a message to Molyneux as part of his latest video update on Double Fine’s progress. “The last thing I’d like to do is send our support to our friend and fellow developer Peter Molyneux,” said Schafer.  “In the last few weeks, we’ve seen some extremely rough treatment of Peter on the internet and in the games press, and i think it’s really unfortunate and unfair, and I don’t think it’s healthy.” Molyneux has been fielding criticism for failing to deliver a number of the features promised in the Kickstarter campaign for Godus, which raised £526k on the crowdfunding website in 2012. Broken Age experienced its own challenges post-Kickstarter, taking longer to develop than Double Fine had expected. It has since been split into two episodes, with sales of the first providing more funding to finish the second. “Obviously things did not go as expected with his game, and because of that people are making some nasty accusations about Peter, and I can really relate to that, believe it or not!” said Schafer in his new video. “I’m not saying that developers like Peter and I shouldn’t be responsible and shouldn’t be accountable for deadlines. I’m just saying that the reaction to recent events and the tone of that reaction is really way out of proportion to the seriousness of the events themselves.” Double Fine is making a documentary of the development of Broken Age, which Schafer hopes will show gamers that “developers are human beings” whose creative ambition often encounters (or, indeed, causes) challenges. “I think it’s clear that the problems that Peter is having are not unique to him. and in fact they happen on many if not most projects,” said Schafer. Molyneux’s studio 22 Cans is pressing on with Godus as well as a new project, The Trail. In several press interviews, he has apologised to players for the missing features in the former game. “I suppose the big mistake was estimating how long the game would take to make. I very stupidly and naïvely didn’t build in enough contingency time into my predictions and I was 100% wrong,” he told the Guardian. “My hope is that in six to nine months time, people start to finally see the game they really did pledge for. That will be two to three years into development but that’s kind of what it takes when you do an original game.” 