 The Fire Phone is the first smartphone from the retailer that found success with its Kindle Fire Android tablets in 2011. Powerful but affordable, the tablets plug directly into Amazon’s Kindle book store and streaming video services. The Fire smartphone, meanwhile, features a camera that will use optical recognition technology to identify an object, or a piece of audio, and then let you add items directly into your Amazon basket. It also features a new head-tracking system that creates a fake 3D effect on screen without glasses. So with these bells and whistles, can the Fire Phone replicate that success? It is clear that the Fire Phone is Amazon’s first attempt at a smartphone. The Fire Phone is solid with little give or flex in the body, but it has sharp edges that are rough to swipe over and a dated look reminiscent of the iPhone 4 from 2010. The Sim card tray is also oddly recessed into the side, creating a lip which feels cheap and collects dust from the pocket. Despite having a relatively small 4.7in screen – most high-end Android smartphones have 5in screens or larger – the bezels around the screen’s sides are wide, as are the top and bottom bezels that house various cameras and home button. They make the phone difficult to use with one hand, while the power button placed on the top is hard to reach. The phone weighs 160g, the same as the HTC One M8 but 31g more than the 129g iPhone 6 and 15g heavier than the 145g Samsung Galaxy S5. It is 8.9mm thick compared to 6.9mm and 8.1mm for the iPhone 6 and Galaxy S5 respectively. The 4.7in screen has a 720p resolution with a similar pixel density to Apple’s iPhone 6. The display is crisp and bright enough, with wide viewing angles, but some elements including the edit interaction icon in the email app look unnecessarily fuzzy. Stereo speakers are built into the top and bottom edge of the phone, which are pretty loud but easily blocked when holding the phone in landscape to watch a video. The Fire Phone has a 2.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor, the same as used in most of 2013 flagship Android smartphones. It is powerful enough to handle anything a user is likely to want to do. There are small elements of lag and stutter when navigating the phone, which is likely down to poor optimisation of Amazon’s Fire OS software and its Dynamic Perspective 3D simulation – more on those later – rather than the processor. The battery lasts for a solid day’s use, putting up with a steady stream of email as well as Twitter, Facebook and three hours’ web browsing, an hour of music streamed over Bluetooth and 30 minutes of gaming. It will need to be charged once a day, which is far behind the best of the competition that last over two days with similar usage. The Fire Phone’s hardware is solid if unspectacular, but the software lets this phone down. It runs Amazon’s own version of Android called Fire OS. It’s the same software as the Kindle Fire Tablets, and unlike Google’s Android doesn’t have access to the Google suite of apps or Google Play. Instead the Fire Phone is restricted to Amazon’s own App Store, which has around 240,000 apps compared to Google’s Play Store with 1.3m apps. Amazon claims that the right apps are available through its store. Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Spotify, Pocket and the BBC iPlayer are all available, but the list of apps missing that I would normally have installed on a standard Android phone was more than 25 apps including Misfit, Gmail, Hangouts and Dropbox. Some of them have alternatives, others do not and cannot be used in any capacity on the Fire Phone. The Fire OS software is also confusing with an inconsistent interface. Gestures play a heavy role invoking menus from the left and right sides with tilt actions, and the notification shake with a swivel action. Sadly the gestures only work around 60% of the time becoming irritating quickly. The side menus aren’t available in every app. A swipe up from the bottom acts as the back button, but can result in accidental scrolling. Amazon’s “Peek” feature shows additional information like star ratings on videos when tilting the phone to the side, but not every app has it making it hard to know that you’re missing something until accidentally tilting the phone. Tilt scrolling gestures are inconsistently implemented, with no tilt scrolling in long lists in the App Store for instance. Amazon’s big selling point is Dynamic Perspective, which uses four front-facing cameras to track the movement of the user’s head and create a simulated 3D view. Some apps and games have been enhanced for Dynamic Perspective, but it is a gimmick, with little in the way of utility most of the time. It can be turned off, along with many of the other gesture and motion controls. I found myself peering round the lock screen, which changes every day, to see what was hidden, but it is just eye candy that didn’t add any utility. The Fire Phone’s 13-megapixel camera is capable of decent if not spectacular photos. It was solid in low light conditions, but sometimes took up to three seconds to focus missing the shot. Firefly, Amazon’s image and audio recognition engine, is impressive. It can identify TV shows, movies, products, works of art, text and all sorts of other things, much like Google’s Goggles app just better and faster. It will even identify where in the movie or TV show you are, giving you scene information. Products recognised through Firefly can be bought on Amazon with a few taps, which could be dangerous for those trying to keep to a strict budget. The Amazon Fire Phone is only available on the O2 mobile phone network in the UK. It costs £399.99 on a pre-paid plan but is available for no up-front cost on a 24-month mobile phone contract, costing £33 a month. The Amazon Fire Phone is not a wholly terrible smartphone, but it feels like a phone from 2010, not 2014. Its limited apps, rough build, bulky design and inconsistent software are not up to scratch with Google’s Android, Apple’s iOS, Microsoft’s Windows Phone or BlackBerry’s BB10. Amazon loyalists will like the integration with every Amazon service, but most can be accessed via any other Android smartphone. If it was being offered for a lower cost, like the company’s Kindle Fire tablets, the story would be slightly different, but as it is, pitched against the iPhone 6, Samsung’s Galaxy S5, Sony’s Xperia Z3 and Microsoft’s Lumia 930, it is just not up to scratch. Pros: solid build, decent camera, great Firefly object recognition, 32GB storage Cons: bulky, limited apps, poor software, gimmicky features, lag and stutter • Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera • HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone • Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic • Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor • Sony Xperia Z3 compact review: best small Android phone and iPhone 6 competitor • iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper • Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet • Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone • Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device 