With Queen Of Katwe, Mira Nair has come full circle, returning to the shanty-slum world of her 1988 feature debut Salaam Bombay!. But here the slum is east African, not Indian, the district of Katwe, an overpopulated sinkhole of poverty and decay within sight of the glittering skyscrapers of Kampala, Uganda; another outpost, or eruption, of the global favela we’ve seen in movies from Blood Diamond to City Of God and Slumdog Millionaire. This being a Mira Nair movie, however, we find ourselves in an Africa very different from the one seen in Beasts Of No Nation or The Constant Gardener. Here, there are no child armies or genocidal pharmacy conglomerates, just poverty and struggle. Phiona and her brothers sell corn on the streets of Kampala, barely getting by. Once relatively comfortable, the death of their father has put all the weight on their mother Nakku (Lupita Nyong’o), who keeps the kids on a tight leash but fails to stop Phiona’s elder sister from drifting into prostitution. Phiona’s one refuge is a kids’ chess club run by Robert Katende (David Oyelowo) who soon intuits she can see eight moves ahead and is a grandmaster in embryo. Nair and screenwriter William Wheeler deftly outline the social and financial obstacles she must overcome. The posh wannabe-English public school that runs the regional chess league doesn’t want these ghetto kids coming around, even less so after they suffer a righteous chessboard thrashing at the same ghetto kids’ hands. Little by little, through Robert’s labours, sly con-tricks and minor deceits, they pass up the rungs of chess success: African finals in Sudan (a first plane ride for the kids), grandmaster face-offs in Russia (their first sight of snow). Here and there, some fairly Disney-ish life lessons are doled out straight from the chess manual: “In chess, the small one may beat the big one,”; “Never tip your king too soon.” The movie is filled with much the same kind of uplift that one finds in its Disney sibling-movie, 2014’s Million Dollar Arm, about cricketing Indian kids recruited as major-league pitchers. Thus far, then, a fairly conventional sports movie with an exotic setting, besieged characters and high stakes. What lifts it up is a winningly effervescent cast and the ensemble of kids – mostly amateur street children playing people like themselves – all anchored and held in check by two very adept professional performers. At the heart of it is a full-fledged, richly detailed performance from Lupita Nyong’o as a kind of universal Mother Courage of the shanties. If there’s any justice, this will remind people what a fine actor she is, and we’ll see a lot more of her. Queen Of Katwe is in cinemas from Friday 