Brenda Blethyn says she welled up as she voiced the part of Ethel in the new animated film version of Ethel & Ernest, Raymond Briggs’s graphic novel about his parents, a bestseller when it was published almost 20 years ago. There were, she says, striking parallels with her own family, and it took her back to life in postwar Kent. Blethyn was the youngest of nine, and her mum and dad were well into middle age when she was born in 1946. Like Ethel and Ernest, they lived through two world wars, the depression, the cold war, and survived to witness the cultural revolution of the 1960s. They were part of what Briggs sees as a generation of giants, often unsung, which was why he wrote his homage. “My dad was born in 1894,” says Blethyn. “My mum was 10 years younger and, like Ethel, was a ladies’ maid. They would tell us stories about the war and the hardship of the depression, so it was all very familiar to me.” When her parents met, her mother was a scullery maid and her father a chauffeur. The family name was Bottle, which suited them perfectly, especially Brenda. Ethel, home-loving and desperate to be respectable, dotes on Raymond, her only son, while Ernest, played by Jim Broadbent, is larky and lovable. Blethyn grew up in Ramsgate and, although her family was very poor, she says: “We didn’t feel deprived. It’s only when you look back and see what we have now that you think, ‘Lord, how on earth did my mother manage with all of us, with one tap in the house, one sink?’ I said to her once, ‘Are we poor?’ She said, ‘No, we just don’t have any money.’ Blethyn laughs at the memory. “It was difficult. There were tough times. But we got tons of affection. You might be reprimanded severely for something, but there was laughter, cuddles, pride and support in equal measure.” I wonder what her numerous siblings have done with their lives, thinking that perhaps Blethyn will be the odd one out in achieving so much: a 40-year career, acclaimed performances on stage and screen, Oscar nominations for Secrets and Lies and Little Voice. But she reels off a string of high-powered jobs: professor of civil engineering, sales executive, music teacher, chef, navigator, quantity surveyor. The pride and support in the Bottle household clearly paid off. Those multiple successes may explain why she dislikes her career being presented as a rags-to-riches story. “From humble beginnings to Hollywood star,” she once said derisively. “It doesn’t seem that extraordinary to me.” It wasn’t a Cinderella-style transformation, but the result of desire, talent and hard work. “My dad always said you have to try. It doesn’t matter if you fail, as long as you try.” Her parents lived into their 80s, long enough to enjoy Blethyn’s acting success after her late start at the age of 27. “They used to come to the National Theatre to see me,” she recalls. “I always said, ‘I don’t want to know where they’re sitting’ – because you gravitate to that spot. But whenever I’d walk on stage, I would hear from somewhere, ‘There she is. That’s her. The one that’s talking now.’ It was useless. I’d always know in the end.” Blethyn married at 18 – she took and has kept her first husband’s name – and worked as a clerk with British Rail. She joined its amateur dramatics society and was an immediate success, with people encouraging her to take up acting professionally. “At first I said, ‘Don’t be so daft – give up my good job?’ But then I thought, ‘Dad says, “Nothing ventured, nothing gained.” I wonder if I could do it.’ You’re as good as anybody else, Brenda, he used to say. Well, let’s see.” If you do your acting all day long, her mother asked, when do you earn your money? When she packed in her job to attend Guildford drama school, it was two months before she plucked up the courage to tell her parents. “I didn’t want them to think I’d lost my marbles,” she says. Her marriage was breaking up at the time, and she worried that her parents would think the two life-changing events were linked. “I didn’t want them to be sad on my behalf, because I was upset – when I wanted to be feeling buoyant and OK about both decisions.”  Louisa, her mother, was perplexed. “If you do your acting all day long,” she asked, “when do you earn your money?” Louisa, it seems, always kept her daughter grounded: once, when Blethyn told her she was late because she’d been signing autographs, her mother said: “That’s nice. Who did they think you were?”  By the 1980s, Blethyn was part of the permanent company at the National, which she loved. She also found love – in the shape of Michael Mayhew, a graphic designer at the theatre. They finally married in 2010, after a 30-year courtship. Where did her desire to act – and her talent – come from? “Probably from my mum and dad,” she says. “When we were kids we didn’t have a television. A lot of the time, we didn’t have a wireless either, because the bill hadn’t been paid. But they were terrific storytellers. Dad would get up and act out a story, while mum would be sherracking him.” Sherracking – a lovely vernacular word that, says Blethyn, means “calling names, making fun, hollering out”. I suggest that her colourful, impoverished background informs her work: from fragile, nervy Cynthia in Secrets and Lies, to brassy, self-pitying Mari in Little Voice. But she doesn’t buy it. “There’s a clue in the job title – actor,” she once said. “You don’t have to murder someone to play a murderer.” She says Cynthia came out of director Mike Leigh’s improvisatory discussions and rehearsals where you work collectively to find the character. She drew on a couple of people she knew, notably for Cynthia’s “generosity and her ability to invade your space – that was the germ”. She found working with Leigh liberating. “It made me realise how lazy I’d been before. I loved the experience of creating this character, getting under her skin. It’s not just a question of learning the lines and saying them in the right order. You have to know how the person’s feeling at the top of page one.” Secrets and Lies raised her profile, while her Oscar nomination for best actress led to more film parts. Little Voice and the well-liked comedy Saving Grace quickly followed, but the 2000s saw a run of turkeys: Pumpkin, Sonny, The Sleeping Dictionary, Beyond the Sea. Did that bother her? “I sometimes wonder why,” she says. “There was one very funny film that people love – I’ve played it at charity dos: Plots with a View. It never even opened here.” She says that, just as you mustn’t let the plaudits go to your head, so you can’t dwell on the failures. “I don’t make the film work. It’s a team of people. You can make a beautiful cake and put it in the oven, and then someone opens the oven door too soon and it’s ruined. It’s not just your contribution. Even if it’s a huge success, it’s not because of you.” Can she sense whether a film is going to work as it’s being made? “Sometimes you can get a feeling it’s all right,” she says, “but then you can have a very rude awakening.”  Failure in theatre is worse, she says, because you have to go out there night after night knowing it isn’t working. She recounts a 1970s National production of Thomas Bernhard’s The Force of Habit, which was a disaster of historic proportions. “The director said the day before press night, ‘Try it differently.’ What do you do with that? We could see the funny side, though. You want with all your heart for it to be good, but it ain’t.” Blethyn’s ability to laugh at herself, and treat the triumphs and disasters with equanimity, has sustained her career. She has always said that, despite the Oscar nominations, she could walk down the street unrecognised – or be confused, as she once was while opening a village fete, for Alison Steadman. But now, thanks to her role as Vera Stanhope in the ITV detective series Vera, her cover has been blown. People really are asking for her autograph. “It was a surprise when the part came in my direction,” she says. “I wouldn’t have thought I would spring to mind for the role of a hard-hitting detective with a brilliant mind.” She laughs and mimics a casting director: “Oh, I know – Brenda Blethyn!” However, that is what happened, so she thought she’d better read the books by Ann Cleeves. “I was halfway through the first one before I got to any mention of this woman Vera, so I thought, ‘I see, it’s just a bit part. OK, that’s all right.’ And then it got to the part where the doors of the church banged open and in walked this great lummox of a woman, like a bag lady, and I asked myself, ‘Well, why have they thought of me?’ I was indignant. But I read on and loved the character, and could see that, as well as the seriousness and gravitas of this woman, there was the possibility of humour.” Comedy is the essence of Brenda Blethyn (née Bottle). She reckons there is an element of it in every part she plays, however much it is tinged with other emotions. “In life, tragedy and comedy are always matched,” she says. Which is why she is so perfect in Ethel & Ernest, her voice capturing a time when if you didn’t laugh in the face of multiple disasters, you would have spent all your time crying. • Ethel & Ernest is in cinemas now and will be shown on the BBC at Christmas. 