 'Agony, to be honest,' says Great Britain's Davis Cup captain, John Lloyd, when asked about the operation he has just undergone on a chronically damaged knee. 'I couldn't sleep for three weeks with the pain. Sometimes I was throwing up it was so bad.' Jaime Fillol, the former Chilean No1, went through the same torment. 'It's fine now, but for six weeks I didn't get much sleep, it hurt so much.'  Both these players competed at a time when the game was nothing like as physical as it is today. 'Given my own experience, I dread to think what some of today's players are going to have to go through,' Lloyd says. 'The pounding their bodies take, with all the jarring and wrenching of knee joints, ankles and hips is pretty horrific, especially on hard courts. They are the worst.'  John Alexander, the former Australian Davis Cup player who used to share a BBC commentary box with Lloyd, goes further. 'Hard courts should have a health warning painted behind the baseline, just like a cigarette packet, saying, "This court serious damages your health",' Alexander says. 'If the ATP are not careful, this generation of players will end up suing them in about 10 years when their bodies collapse.' Gary Lewin, the top physio who has just left Arsenal to join England full time, told me that he felt tennis was now one of the most physically demanding games in the world. 'It's the constant stop-start nature of how they jam on the brakes and push off in a rally that puts extreme strain on everything,' Lewin said. The evidence of a problem that is only getting worse is everywhere. Look at Rafael Nadal's knees. He plays with strapping on both in an attempt to delay the inevitable. He started feeling twinges when he was 19. 'Obviously it's a concern,' says Toni Nadal, the player's coach and uncle. 'I would like him to play less on hard courts because that's where the damage is done, but he needs the ranking points. He can't just play on clay and grass.'  As the years go by, the Nadals may have to re-evaluate that decision because many experts feel Rafa will be lucky to still be playing top-class tennis at the age of 26.  That was the ridiculously young age at which two world No1s, Gustavo Kuerten and Marcelo Ríos had hip surgery. Neale Fraser had hip surgery last January and he won Wimbledon in 1960. That time gap illustrates perfectly the difference in wear and tear on the body that today's game causes compared with Fraser's era when three of the grand slams were played on grass and the only hard courts were in California. It is no coincidence that three players who grew up on those hard courts around Los Angeles in the 1960s, Billie Jean King, Dennis Ralston and Bob Lutz, hardly have a knee between them. The fact that injuries on both the men's and women's tours are now at epidemic level is something the game's governing bodies do not try to deny, but find difficult to do anything about. Larry Scott, head of the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour, has pushed through reforms that will see the women's calendar reduced next year, and the men are trying to follow suit. But extra rest will not come close to solving the problem unless something is done about the surface. Obviously reducing the number of hard court tournaments would meet huge resistance in America and, inevitably, would lead to law suits. Synthetic grass would seem to offer an alternative, but the surface, while fun for amateurs, has never offered a reliable enough footing for the pros. Much more funding would be needed to perfect synthetic grass and the money disappeared in the late 1980s when Tennis Australia opted for Rebound Ace - a cushioned tennis hard court (since discarded) - instead of fake grass for Melbourne Park. In the meantime, there is a feeling that a sudden switch from hard court to clay only exacerbates the problem. 'You use different muscles on clay compared to hard courts,' says Félix Mantilla who won Bournemouth when Britain still had an ATP clay-court event. Mantilla is now coaching the American, Wayne Odesnik, who was one of nine players forced to default their matches in the first two rounds of Wimbledon. But Mantilla's point is well made because, between Estoril, the first clay-court event of the year in April and the end of the Masters Series in Rome five weeks later, 26 matches had failed to finish through injury. Nearly all the injuries had been suffered by players who had been competing on hard courts for the previous three months and had no time to train their muscles for a different discipline. It is not only the courts. The big change in the game over the past six years or so has been brought about by the Luxilon strings that the players call the Big Banger. These synthetic strings, which some players such as Roger Federer only use half and half with gut, enable the big hitters to take a huge swing at the ball; confident that the amount of spin the string generates will keep the ball in play. So the ball is hit harder and the rallies become longer. Guess what's taking the extra strain - arm, shoulder, hip and knee. Hospital beckons. So is there any hope for a pain-free future for the likes of Nadal or Tommy Haas, who managed to get on court against Andy Murray yesterday despite a medical history of two ankle operations and three surgeries on his shoulder? 'Yes,' says Peter Fleming, the long-time London resident who used to partner John McEnroe in doubles. 'These guys today should be able to benefit from the advances that will take place in the next 10 years as people come to realize how much diet and PH balance between acids and alkalines affects the core strength of the body.'  Before Fleming studied holistic medicine, he was taking 12 aspirin every day between the ages of 27 and 32 just to get him through doubles matches. 'Our culture is rampantly acidic and that effects the amount of calcium deposited in your joints,' he says. 'I avoided surgery by studying the alternatives but not everyone is open to that. Yet.' Listen to Lloyd and they might start right now. 