 It seems that now, more than ever before, we need and want to talk about football. At a time when it still feels enjoyably odd to describe Leicester City as Premier League champions, players of questionable quality routinely change hands for more than £20m and a former referee has claimed in passing that he was once leaned on to un-see what had previously been seen, the need for radio phone-in shows, shouty post-match fan forums and assorted other platforms for football discourse has never been greater. Small wonder, then, that the Manchester Football Writing Festival has never been in more rude health. Contrary to what it says on the tin, it is not so much a festival of badly dressed men hunched over laptops furiously tip-tapping to deadline as one in which assorted football writers (increasingly few of them badly dressed and male) convene on panels before audiences to discuss various aspects of their trade, address major football issues and concerns of the day and – in one specific case – nitpick at tedious but amusing length over the exact birthplace of the newly canonised Saint Teresa of Kolkata. As with most sporting debates, these events can be alcohol-fuelled and ribald or comparatively sedate, but rarely dull for those involved. Take last Thursday. A rapt audience was listening to the football journalist Jonathan Wilson wistfully lament the homogenisation in recent years of goal nets. No, really. A regular of this parish speaking on a panel assembled under the umbrella of his own long-form football quarterly The Blizzard – as well as the author of the definitive history of Argentinian football, Angels With Dirty Faces – reckoned there was a time between 1984 and 1996 you could have shown him the pattern of any goal net from any top-flight ground in the country and he’d have been able to correctly identify the club from which it came. But not any more, he sorrowfully intoned. In a football world gone almost completely mad, where increasingly angry fans rail with justifiable outrage against the many grave injustices visited upon them on an almost daily basis, it was the tragic modern day uniformity of the onion bag that had got Wilson’s dander up on this particular occasion, and by all accounts the paying punters couldn’t get enough of it. “There was a thesis developing there,” says Matt Gardiner, founder and curator of the festival. “We were slightly concerned because it was towards the end of the evening and it sounded like he could have talked about it for another hour. Wrapping things up and getting people home is always the most difficult part of any evening.” Fast forward 24 hours and it is the turn of the Guardian’s Football Weekly podcast panel to pick through more of modern football’s excruciating minutiae. In front of a packed house at The Royal Northern College of Music, the very serious business of Mark Clattenburg’s summer visit to the tattoo parlour is up for discussion. Not content with the commemorative medals he received for his role as referee in the Champions League and Euro 2016 finals, the referee from County Durham raised eyebrows by going under the gun to have reminders of these career highlights inked in perpetuity on his forearms. Harmless enough if a little egotistical was the consensus, with those at the top table largely in agreement that the skin in question is Clattenburg’s to decorate as he sees fit. It is eventually decided that, in the important field of professional mediation, a football referee can probably get away with the kind of indelible, clearly visible souvenirs of high-profile appointments that might look rather more crass on the biceps of a high court judge. Next topic, please. Of course there have been and will be more cerebral discussions at this, the third such festival run by Waterstones in partnership with the National Football Museum. On Monday, the ongoing vicissitudes of the England football team at major tournaments will be examined by various luminaries at a show called 50 Years Of Hurt, while assorted Manchester-based writers will field interrogatory projectiles from fans of both the city’s clubs 24 hours later. We can expect the cloakroom attendants at Hotel Football next door to Old Trafford to handle an unprecedented number of anoraks when the thrilling subject of heat maps, chalkboards, formations and the proliferation of assorted statistical data comes up for discussion at Wednesday’s knowingly titled Revenge of the Nerds forum, while the festival draws to a close on Thursday when Women in Football present a masterclass in How To Get Ahead In Football Journalism. “I had to issue a refund for a girl who realised she couldn’t quite get the train from Portsmouth to Manchester for it,” says Adam Comstive of the National Football Museum. “People are travelling a long way to get to these events.” With the forums in question attracting crowds ranging in size from 80 to 700, Comstive and Gardiner are hopeful their baby can continue to flourish and diversify. “The first year we were very much based on books published by Waterstones, which meant that we ended up with a very male, very white kind of panel,” says Comstive. “Since then we’ve tried to talk more about podcasts and independent publishing and have a more representative selection of voices that cover what football’s about. What we have found is that people just want to come out every night for six nights to listen to people who write about football talk about writing about football.” The game has never been more meta. 