 As failsafe methods of predicting sales of a new device go, asking people whether they will buy it despite the fact that they don’t know full pricing details is one of the riskier options. Even so, that’s the method behind Business Insider’s claim – based on a survey by Credit Suisse of recent iPhone buyers – that as many as 35m people will want to buy an Apple Watch in its first year on sale. The survey found 18% of people who bought an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus say they will “definitely” buy an Apple Watch, which Business Insider says indicates 35m first-year buyers. If Credit Suisse’s belief that Apple will only make 20m of the smartwatches that year is true, that is plenty of disappointed people – although also potentially a large group of frustrated consumers for rival smartwatch makers to target. At the device’s launch in 2014, Apple said pricing will start at $349 (£229), but with several models available, further details of more expensive models have yet to be announced. More tangible are details of the Apple Watch’s official companion app, which leaked out as Apple launched the beta version of its iOS 8.2 software for iPhone and iPad, which includes support for the new device. 9 to 5 Mac reported that the app will manage apps on the smartwatch, as well as how notifications and push alerts are presented on it. The app will also control whether owners of the watch responding to messages use voice-to-text transcription, or simply send the audio clips. According to leaked screenshots of its companion app, the watch’s fitness features include reminding its owner to stand up if they’ve been sitting down for the first 50 minutes of an hour, and notifications when they reach their preset daily moving, exercising and standing goals. Another aspect about the Apple Watch that has yet to leak out are Apple’s policies on advertising on the device, with mobile advertising firm Tapsense announcing a software development kit for an Apple Watch ad platform, before clarifying that Apple has yet to provide guidelines on whether it will be allowed. • Will Apple Watch spark a wave of popular games? Not so fast... 