Camilla Tenn 
 Every week we invite our readers to tell us about where they go to watch films. This week it's the turn of film blogger Camilla Tenn, who is in the process of reviewing the top 100 top-rated films on IMDb, in reverse order. Location Situated in the heart of East Sussex, Uckfield is well-known among locals for having more than its fair share of hairdressers and estate agents and an awkwardly placed Tesco. This town is bustling with life, and in the midst of the hubbub stands a rather sophisticated little haven of modern culture. The building An emblazoned sign on the building's side proudly declares that this striking Picture House has been open since 1916. It was originally a garrison theatre during the first world war and held its first public screenings in 1920. Nearly a century later, the Picture House now boasts two further screens, both of which the Markwick family have installed since their purchase of the cinema in 1964. The building's exterior remains true to its original style, while the interior possesses all the mod cons 21st-century patrons could desire. The clientele Recently, I found myself squashed into the modest foyer between the queue for Maltesers and the rowdy overflow from the waiting room/alcove that I remember vividly from my childhood. Overhearing the chatter of a dozen different clusters of cinemagoers, it is apparent that the Picture House draws customers from many various nearby villages and towns, demonstrating the appeal that a local cinema can have in its own neighbourhood.  The programme Films are shown around their release date and meet local tastes with reassuring diplomacy. Owner/manager Kevin Markwick describes the programme as tending towards the "upmarket mainstream", attracting customers of a more mature age. Yet there's usually something for all tastes, including the obligatory kids' option among the Oscar-nominated blockbusters. Further comments The Picture House has a live video-link to such epicentres of culture as the National Theatre and various opera houses across the globe. It can be difficult to catch spectacles like Le Corsaire and Raymonda when living in the country. However, The Picture House bridges the gap for its patrons. There is a busy schedule of theatre and ballet, and more seats are added to meet the high demand for these showings. With live feeds of performances from London, New York and Moscow, the Picture House brings the cultural delights of the big city to a small-town audience. What's more, it also hosts the periodical Laughter Lounge event, with an opportunity for comics such as Phill Jupitus to provide an evening's light entertainment. How kind. The Twitter view @stuartcurran Old-fashioned independant cinema with friendly staff and thoughtful lineups of mainstream and arthouse despite limited screens @MikeBellDotEu  UPH is an independent cinema run by a maverick, oops, no a Markwick. It has a personality & passion, quite rare in film houses @CharlieFirthy I've been to @PictureHouseUck COUNTLESS times. It's a brilliant little cinema that I've seen expand over the years. It has wonderful staff and the fact it has kept it's original Edwardian exterior makes the town feel rather special! @NewStAdventure  That's my hometown cinema. I just remember them refusing to show Ali G: the Film and going on my first date. Is there a cinema you love (or hate) that you think our readers should know about? If you're interested in reviewing a cinema, email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk with the subject line "Cine-files". 