 The art of winning is a best-selling topic but we seldom study its close relative – the art of not losing – in which England's cricketers are cornering the market. To celebrate the tail-end rearguards of Cardiff, Centurion Park and Cape Town too ardently will only encourage those who think the purpose of sport is not to delight but to defy. We ought not to invite a stampede through the gates of the pariah colony where we restrain the disciples of negation who preach that the point of a game is to stop the other team performing. "Parking the bus" in front of the posts in football, peek-a-boo methodology in boxing, kick-dependent rugby and passive-aggressive tennis are all expressions of timidity or a mechanical spirit. The mistake the killjoys make is to assume their place in posterity will be as hallowed as the spots reserved for the creative and the brave. José Mourinho will always be respected, and feared, but never revered for his artistic contribution to the game. England's latest attempt to enshrine the No11 batsman as a willow-wielding folk hero belongs in another category. It was not an attempt at suffocation so much as survival, an exercise in clinging on. Three times in six months, Andrew Strauss's team have remade the final scene in The Italian Job when the bus and the bullion teeter on the cliff's edge. If you can't watch people winning through their own skill and ingenuity, a decent alternative is to observe them not losing a Test or a football match when the odds are screaming that they will. In Cardiff in the first Ashes Test, Monty Panesar, whose first-class batting average is 8.58, contrived to stay at the crease with Jimmy Anderson for 69 balls to help force a draw. It remains the biting paradox of Panesar's fading England career that his final memorable act will probably be stonewalling against Australia. That role has now passed to another last-man-in: Graham Onions, who stood resolute at Centurion and endured 11 of the final 17 South African deliveries on Thursday. Onions's haul with the bat in Tests is a princely 30. The first myth to spear is that this kind of defiance is a peculiarly British trait. We cannot cure ourselves of confusing the Blitz with a No11 batsman prodding away short balls with his forearms. For every England team that turns a game into Rorke's Drift you can find another that capitulated. Martin Johnson's rugby XV displayed an absence of intestinal fortitude in more than one autumn international, and senior members of Sven-Goran Eriksson's 2002 World Cup side admit that resolve collapsed when Brazil's first-half equaliser whispered to them that Ronaldinho and company were going to be unbeatable. But victory achieved through obduracy does wear a special glow. Steve Redgrave's fifth Olympic rowing gold would have been mesmerising whatever the circumstances. It was Italy's coxless four, though, who rendered it excruciatingly beautiful to witness. The Italian surge on the lakes of Sydney brought them to within half a second of consigning Redgrave's dream to a watery grave. We didn't just see him win it, we watched him refuse to lose. When losing becomes unthinkable a new dynamic enters. To England's 2003 Rugby World Cup-winning team defeat came to feel like something shameful and unconscionable. The emotions that came with being conquered in Six Nations grand slam finales were hateful and to be avoided at any cost. Clive Woodward's England ran away from the pain of losing, to a safe place, called winning. In June 2003 against New Zealand in Wellington they were down to 13 players when Neil Back and Lawrence Dallaglio were sent to the sin-bin. For five of the 10 minutes they camped on their own try-line contesting All Black scrums. Not only did they resist crushing numerical superiority, they outscored the hosts 3-0 in the 10 minutes of personnel imbalance. As this recalcitrance became ingrained, the ground was being laid for the refusal to lose to Australia in the 2003 final in Sydney, and for Jonny Wilkinson's decisive drop goal. Arsenal's Invincibles went through the whole 2003-04 campaign unvanquished and ran up a sequence of 49 Premier League games undefeated. Along the way they played some of the most sumptuous club football we've seen in Europe but they also had to acquire a deep antipathy to losing for their defensive work to tally with their brilliance. This was not Panesar doing a cat-on-a-hot-tin-roof dance in Wales, it was a beautiful marriage of construction and destruction. In South Africa, far from our tundra, England are becoming the Joe Calzaghe of the Test arena. In the ring, against Mikkel Kessler and others, you could see Calzaghe contemplate the possibility of losing for the first time and almost hear him thinking: "No. No thanks. Not today. Not ever." 1 City are not a pre-World Cup training camp for ageing luminaries who want to be in South Africa. An extravagant wage lured Vieira from Internazionale but so did his need to catch France's eye. Wrong emphasis at the wrong time for his new employers. 2 With his soft start of winnable games, Roberto Mancini may be misjudging the English game. The modern central midfielder is agile and super-quick. The aristocratic Vieira will bring control but only if he can get to the ball. 3 At the top end, where City yearn to be, the game goes on around the great former Arsenal captain. Serie A offered a slower pace but even there he was unable to command a regular place at Inter. For Mancini to be right, José Mourinho must have been wrong. Unlikely. 4 Mark Hughes's successor is rightly worried about the calibre of his defence and will want Vieira to screen Kolo Touré and Joleon Lescott. But he already has Nigel de Jong and Vincent Kompany in that role. 5 City's acquisitions had been in the right age range but this signing says they will pay silly money to stars in their sunset years. Agents, start your engines. Machiavelli would have told Brendan Venter to split his arguments when he cast doubt on the integrity of a referee while also ridiculing rugby union's breakdown laws. The Saracens man might have presented those two cases on separate days to deny the Rugby Football Union their chance to bury his objections under a charge of impugning a match official. "When the referee blows his whistle, nobody knows why and who is going to be given the penalty," agreed Nigel Davies, the Scarlets' coach. In 10 years, people will mock these incoherent laws the way we all do those early breezeblock mobile phones. 