A new series of the mirthless Citizen Khan lands with a thump. Mr Khan has been banished, made to sleep in his car after forgetting his own wedding anniversary. Resolving to make amends, he gets himself into a spot of bother at Edgbaston cricket ground. There are some impressive guest stars, mind you, including Test Match Special’s Jonathan Agnew, former England cricket captain Michael Vaughan and the mayor of London himself, Sadiq Khan. Ben Arnold So, whose turn might it be to sweep the honours this year? Olly Murs? Jedward? While it’s inspiring that white artists such as Anne-Marie can break the colour barrier and perform at a ceremony set up to celebrate black music, one hopes for no repeat of the 2014 Sam Smith fiasco. Rickie Haywood-Williams and Melvin Odoom introduce this evening’s award ceremony, live from Glasgow, featuring performances by Tinie Tempah, Craig David and Laura Mvula, among others. David Stubbs Not quite the blazing, loose-end-torching finale a truly top-drawer crime thriller would deliver – mainly due to a lurching last scene that might as well feature the lead actors turning to the camera and saying: “Please give us a second series” – but the saga of family secrets and dodgy deals on the Brighton sea front goes out with a sufficient bang. And there’s enough action and suspense to stop us thinking for too long about whether any of the twists actually make sense. Jack Seale While Dolly Parton has long been recognised as a thoroughly country artist with an almost cartoonish image, Linda Ronstadt and Emmylou Harris were more introverted west coast folksters who weren’t entirely sold on its charms. Even so, when the trio came together in the mid-70s to record an album, there was a special synergy between them. All three feature heavily in a lovely doc about an unlikely musical sisterhood. Hannah J Davies The image of unscrupulous fisherfolk saving themselves time and effort by tossing sticks of dynamite into the water has been a staple of hillbilly-baiting jokes for epochs, but – as this investigation demonstrates – it’s no laughing matter. Blast fishing in Malaysian Borneo is wreaking possibly irreparable damage to marine habitats and, given that it is perpetrated by mobile marauders roaming remote coasts, is proving difficult to police. Andrew Mueller It’s six degrees of surreal separation in this faux-factual pilot fronted by Jason Lewis. What’s The Facts (see what they did there?) is out to prove that everyone and everything is connected. A big premise, but Lewis and his investigators aim to do it in six steps. Is a line-dancing club in Suffolk linked to Little Mix? And what does Princess Diana’s wedding dress have in common with Willy Wonka? Not strictly truth-based, but still entertaining. Hannah Verdier Following famously fatuous blockbuster Batman v Superman, the more tantalising proposition of Batman versus Attenborough becomes semi-reality as Ben Affleck hits the Norton sofa to promote action thriller The Accountant, while David Attenborough arrives to discuss keenly anticipated natural history sequel Planet Earth 2. Elsewhere, Claire Foy and Matt Smith reveal the truth behind playing the Queen and Prince Philip. Mark Gibbings-Jones Joy, (David O Russell, 2015), 1.45pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema Premiere Jennifer Lawrence swaps her Hunger Games bow and arrows for a mop in this intriguing tale of a suburban pursuit of the American dream. Lawrence plays real-life single mum Joy Mangano, who in the 90s got rich by selling the self-wringing mop she invented on a home-shopping TV channel. Considering it’s a film about cleaning (and cleaning up) the film has a messily mucked-up feel, with Lawrence shining brightly. Paul Howlett Ghost Dog: The Way Of The Samurai, (Jim Jarmusch, 1999), 12.40am, Film4 Forest Whitaker’s Ghost Dog is a hitman steeped in the philosophy of the samurai: when his mob bosses turn against him, his ancient moral code confronts their modern one. Jarmusch pauses frequently to explore Ghost Dog’s quirky relationships with his mafia mentor, a girl in the park and a Haitian ice-cream vendor, in a cross-cultural thriller inspired by Melville’s classic Le Samourai. Paul Howlett Tennis: The Paris Masters The first two quarter-finals. 1pm, Sky Sports 1 Championship Football: Brentford v Fulham The Bees look to continue their good form in this London derby. 7pm, Sky Sports 1 Anglo-Welsh Cup Rugby: Bath v Leicester Tigers  The opening game of the tournament from the Recreation Ground. 7.15pm, BT Sport 2 