Traders were baffled by the overnight “flash crash” in the pound, with theories emerging about what happened to send the currency over the edge. The pound fell by 6% to $1.1378, having dropped by 10% before one of the more outlying major trades was cancelled. Analysts pointed to possible causes including rogue computer trades, an accidental “fat finger” transaction and tough comments from the French president, François Hollande, on Brexit negotiations. The most popular theories revolve around algorithmic trading, also known as black box trading. Traders on financial markets are influenced by emotion and instinct, while the limits of the human brain and body mean people can only trade at a certain speed and frequency. Algorithmic trading aims to eliminate human failings by programming a computer to carry out trades based on instructions tailored to a range of scenarios. For instance, the algorithm might be set to sell a currency automatically when its average value over 50 days falls below the average value over 200 days. Several market commentators believe that an overzealous algorithm may have been partly responsible for the overnight sterling crash. While algorithmic trading is supposed to help smooth market volatility by increasing the volume of trades, its automated nature can lead to unexpected and sizeable transactions that move markets significantly. Some algorithms have been designed to feed off news headlines and social media, meaning they can still be affected by human herd mentality. Analysts at City Index said: “Apparently it was a rogue algorithm that triggered the sell-off after it picked up comments made by the French president, François Hollande, who said if Theresa May and company want ‘hard Brexit’, they will get hard Brexit.”  City Index said a sell-off triggered by Twitter-reading algorithms could have been exacerbated by a different group of “technical” algorithms that sell once a currency falls below a certain level. Thus, algorithmic trading could have set off a vicious circle in which the pound’s slump became a self-fulfilling prophecy. The effect was also fuelled by the fact that it happened overnight, when only the Asian, Australian and New Zealand markets were open, and trading was particularly thin due to uncertainty about forthcoming US jobs data. Lower trading volumes mean single trades have a bigger effect on what is going on in the market, because there is less other activity to balance out big movements. Some market watchers have also speculated that a fat finger trade, where someone accidentally omits a decimal point or types the wrong number, could have been a factor. In 2014, Japanese stock markets were plunged into chaos when a smaller trade accidentally became a $617bn (£494bn) trade, while a big drop in the FTSE 100 this time last year was blamed on a fat finger error. 