 The series may have gone in the bruising brilliance of Pune and Cuttack but England found enough craft in their death bowling under the lights in Kolkata to finish on a high, beating India by five runs at a fond, febrile Eden Gardens. It was a thrilling finish in another match that swung from side to side with drunken elan. Chasing England’s 321, India’s batsmen had produced a late surge against some wayward bowling, only for England’s fitness and sheer desperation for a first win on tour to drag the game around at the last. Afterwards Eoin Morgan praised Ben Stokes for his aggression with bat and ball on a ground where he has suffered the odd trauma in the past. “The bowlers all bowled really well today,” Morgan said. “It’s great to see such an improvement, particularly with the damp ball and against such a strong side.” India’s chase looked to have stalled at 133 for four, but Kedar Jadhav, the hammer of Pune, kept on swinging, lofting and slicing his way to a gunslinger’s 90 off 75 balls. At the other end Hardik Pandya hit bravely as England bowled short or too full, with a regular drip of wides. Stokes, the man of the match, finally got one in exactly the right place, splaying Pandya’s stumps. As the game closed in India needed 23 off the final two overs. Jake Ball was tight when it mattered, leaving Woakes to defend 16 off the last, with the spectre of Carlos Brathwaite’s horribly bruising brilliance looming over Eden Gardens. The first ball was a half-volley that Jadhav spanked over cover for six. The second ball was a half-volley that Jadhav spanked over cover for four. The Eden erupted, the 60,000 full house producing a great joyous surge of noise. Woakes composed himself and produced two quick straight dot balls before drawing a hoick to Sam Billings at deep cover. With six needed off the final ball, Woakes closed it out to leave England’s players hugging one another in well-earned relief. Once again England’s batsmen had played with skill but failed to take the game away. Jason Roy looked in wonderfully easy, brutal form right up to the moment he was out on 65. Stokes produced a controlled, violent unbeaten 57 off 39 balls. The difference in Kolkata was that England found a pitch to flatter their bowlers’ strengths rather than semaphore their weaknesses. Ball, Woakes and Stokes found enough nip in the slightly damp city centre night air to break though at vital times. India had won the toss and bowled first on a grassy-looking wicket. Roy got his engine going with a semi-flamingo flick through square leg for four. Ten of Billings’ first 27 deliveries beat his outside edge as the ball swung late, but he played with skill and care, even as Roy seemed to be playing another game at the other end and England moved to 57 without loss after 10 tricky overs. As Morgan noted afterwards, “for a bunch of sloggers we did well”. Ravi Jadeja was flipped straight for an orbit-bound six by Roy to bring a fine 50 from 41 balls. Billings threw it away, caught at backward point reverse sweeping Jadeja straight to the fielder. Roy followed for 65, cutting a ball from Jadeja that knocked his middle stump back. Morgan gave it away too on 43, flicking a half-volley from Pandya into the hands of short fine leg. Jonny Bairstow went to a composed fifty, then cut to backward point. Moeen Ali produced a horrible cameo, bounced out by the fourth short ball of the five he faced. England were grateful to Stokes for some late acceleration. He hit the ball with real power here, all bottom hand, like a man taking his sledgehammer to a plasterboard wall. A top-edged six from Woakes brought up the 300 as he produced an agreeably brisk, elegant piece of finishing from No8. It looked a decent, slightly in-out effort, as most batsmen got in and most batsmen got themselves out. England came out with some purpose under the lights. David Willey, who could swing a piece of cheese in the opening overs, produced a delicious full-pitch yorker to ping back Ajinkya Rahane’s off stump, before leaving the field after three overs with a sore shoulder. A squeal of shared excitement brought Virat Kohli to the crease, striding out with that familiar coiled sense of menace. Ball sent back KL Rahul, then shortly afterwards dropped Kohli’s swirling top-edged pull, sliding in to grab it on his knees but seeing it bounce out of his hands. Dropping Kohli is bad enough. Dropping Kohli on the boundary in front of 60,000 at the Eden is perhaps not one for the showreel. Kohli moved to fifty before he edged a spicy lifter from Stokes. Ball silenced an enjoyably engaged and engaging crowd, drawing a top edge from MS Dhoni to turn the game England’s way. Then came that finish, and an England win to garland a thrilling losing series. England’s batting has shone but fallen a little short. The bowlers came strong at the end. Both teams produced a record for runs over a three-match series. Next up is Kanpur and the T20s. 