If you can handle several moments where things become far too cloying, there’s plenty to admire in this new US import created by Dan Fogelman (Crazy, Stupid, Love). At heart, to judge by the first episode, it’s a drama about family, intimacy and moments when life doesn’t turn out as you’d hoped. To say too much more is to risk spoilers, thanks to this pilot being structured around a twist that’s tricksy but delivered with some aplomb. Jonathan Wright If you stopped watching Westworld because nothing was happening, be assured that something huge happened three episodes back regarding Bernard; last week saw him having apparently blown a hole in his head at the behest of Ford. But might he yet appear in this finale? The hosts are making significant advances in consciousness, rising up en masse across multiple time frames and the whole future of the resort is in question. Cryptic, poignant, engrossing. David Stubbs  When Chris Packham’s dogs howled at Lightning Seeds’ Pure, he concluded – somewhat presumptuously, you could argue – that it was because they liked it. Here, he joins forces with Nitin Sawhney to create a composition other animals will enjoy, while exploring music’s roots in our evolutionary past. Surely the only show this week that asks: “Can an ice-cream van trigger a call-and-response from wolves?” Gently entertaining. Luke Holland In the late 60s, Nick Hedges took a series of photographs documenting poverty in Britain’s cities. This intense, moving documentary returns to some of the photos’ subjects and meets their modern equivalents to show how little has changed. The photographs themselves are eloquent enough, but the documentary is also perceptive and lucid on the psychological toll that’s exerted by poverty: shame, boredom and an anger that can poison everything it touches. Phil Harrison Whatever criticisms may be made of John Pilger, he is unafraid of flirting with self-parody: this characteristically sonorous philippic begins with The Star-Spangled Banner soundtracking a montage of US military marauding. Beyond that, there’s the odd interesting insight into how differently Beijing and Washington view the same things – but, as ever with Pilger, the monotonous sanctimony grows rapidly wearisome. Andrew Mueller You might not know his name, but you’ll know at least one of his artworks: Cattelan’s Pope John Paul II felled by a meteorite (AKA The Ninth Hour) thrust him into the wider spotlight in 1999; yet this enigmatic conceptual artist has been delighting and provoking for decades. Maura Axelrod’s documentary profiles the elusive prankster, whose Praying Hitler (AKA Him) sold for £12m this year at Christie’s. Ali Catterall More than a million people flock to Skegness for the summer, populating Europe’s biggest caravan park complex. As such, there’s an insatiable demand for entertainment, and the industry is cut-throat. This doc, made by the team behind Grayson Perry: Who Are You?, follows talent manager Noel Gee, his glam-rocker sidekick Kriz Garrick and acts such as the Memphis Flash and singer Danielle Adele as they face both the crowds and their own personal dramas. Ben Arnold Hyde Park on Hudson (Roger Michell, 2012) 1.25am, Film4 This account of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth’s 1939 visit to President Roosevelt in New York to drum up support for the approaching war is a slightly sickly royal cousin to The King’s Speech. Samuel West and a rather sour Olivia Colman are fine as Bertie and Liz, while Bill Murray is too glib as FDR, who is embroiled in an affair with a distant cousin (Laura Linney). This is more upper-crust romcom than history in the making. Pool: Mosconi Cup Pool’s answer to the Ryder Cup gets underway at Ally Pally. 6.30pm, Sky Sports 2 Champions League Football Arsenal, Manchester City, Celtic and Barcelona are all in action tonight as the group stage comes to a close. 7pm, BT Sport 2 Cycling: 6 Days Of Amsterdam Day one of the track race from Amsterdam Velodrome. 7.30pm, Eurosport 1 