One of Britain’s largest technology firms has announced an $8.8bn (£6.6bn) deal to buy part of Hewlett-Packard’s business and create one of the world’s leading software companies. Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) will spin off and merge its non-core software assets with Berkshire-based Micro Focus International. Micro Focus said the deal represented a rare opportunity to significantly increase the size of the company. The newly enlarged business will have annual revenues of about $4.5bn. It is one of the largest takeover deals by a British company in recent years, and the executive chairman of Micro Focus, Kevin Loosemore, said the tie-up marked a “significant milestone”. “The merger will create one of the world’s largest infrastructure software companies with leading positions across a number of key products. It represents a compelling opportunity to create significant value for both companies’ shareholders,” he said. “The combination will give customers more choice as they seek to maximize the value of existing IT assets, leveraging their business logic and data along with next-generation technologies to innovate in new ways with the lowest possible risk.”  Loosemore sees the deal as another opportunity to profit from managing old software. Companies including banks and airlines pay Micro Focus to extend the life of the computers they use to run their businesses, for example to manage data. This allows the companies to avoid spending on newer computer systems.  Loosemore said there would be some job losses as a result of the deal. “Over time we will probably see some reductions as we look for efficiencies in the business. We tend to spend a lot of time planning integrations but over the two- to three-year period there will probably be some reductions.” The deal would generate better returns for shareholders and improved earnings per share by the end of the first full financial year, the companies said.  The tie-up will put assets formerly owned by UK software group Autonomy back into British hands. HPE acquired part of its software portfolio through the $11bn purchase of Autonomy in 2011 – a deal that later descended into acrimony. The takeover was supposed to form the central part of HP’s move into software, but HPE later wrote off three-quarters of the company’s value, accusing Autonomy executives of financial mismanagement – which they deny. Neil Wilson, market analyst at ETX Capital, said the deal was a confident move by Micro Focus, swimming against the tide of UK companies being snapped up by overseas buyers. “It’s a big scalp for the FTSE 100 group, which has been on a buying spree of late.” Referring to the recent acquisition of one of Britain’s most prized tech companies, chip designer Arm, to a Japanese firm, he added: “After Arm Holdings was sold to SoftBank, it’s a sign that the UK tech sector is still capable of making deals in the other direction,” he said. “[The HPE deal] would be the biggest acquisition by a British company of a foreign tech firm, and comes in the face of a massive drop in the value of the pound that has made UK firms the target of overseas bidders.” Loosemore said he would be keen to see a growing technology scene in the UK but it was not something the company was focused on. Under the terms of the deal, Micro Focus will pay $2.5bn in cash to HPE, while HPE shareholders will own 50.1% of the combined company, which will operate under the name Micro Focus and be run by its executives. HP said it would pay $700m in one-off costs related to the separation of the assets. Micro Focus was founded in 1976 and is headquartered in Newbury. It employs more than 4,500 people in more than 80 global locations, with about 20,000 customers worldwide. HPE has more than 50,000 customers. For more than a decade, about half of Micro Focus’s business has been in the US. It employs just 500 people in the UK. However, Loosemore said the company was still committed to Britain. “We’re totally committed to the UK. It’s a great place to run a business from and I don’t know why more people don’t do it.” Meg Whitman, HPE chief executive, said: “With today’s announcement we are taking another important step in achieving the vision of creating a faster-growing, higher-margin, stronger cash-flow company well positioned for our customers and for the future. “We believe the software assets that will be a part of this combination will bring better value to both our customers and shareholders as part of a more focused software company committed to developing these businesses on a standalone basis.” 