Corporate, fun, day: three words to strike dread into the soul of antisocial workers the world over. Is there anything worse for the introvert than being forced to take part in trust exercises with colleagues you avoid at the water cooler, let alone the go-kart track or paintballing experience? Well, yes, there probably is: a corporate fun day at a trampolining centre. More and more employees are being forced to suffer the indignity of bouncing around with their co-workers at these centres, which are spreading across the country like a particularly virulent eurodisco earworm. Just over a year ago the UK boasted four indoor trampoline parks. Usually converted warehouses on out-of-town industrial estates, they are kitted out with dozens of interconnected trampolines on the floors and walls, as well as bouncing dodgeball and volleyball courts, parcour/freerunning arenas and specialist hoists to learn jumps and tricks. Though popular with children and teenagers, they are increasingly beloved of adults – and human resources departments of companies looking for ever more novel ways to bring their teams together. The first in Britain, Bounce, in Milton Keynes, opened in May 2014. Now there are 96, with a further 20 under construction. That’s according to David Stalker, chief executive of Oxygen, which has opened five parks in the UK since July last year. His sixth, a 24,000 sq ft venue in Leeds, is due to open next Friday. The first branch of Oxygen, in Acton, west London, was an “overnight success”, said Stalker, former executive director of the Fitness Association. “I’ve been in business my whole life and I’ve never seen anything like it. It was almost ridiculous.” The centre was profitable from day one and had recouped all its start-up costs by the end of the first year, he said. Michael Harrison, who set up Gravity Trampoline Parks with his friend Harvey Jenkinson, said opening the first park was “literally like striking gold, to be honest”. The firm has four now, with two scheduled to open in Scotland in November and plans for between six to 10 more. “We have around 10,000 people a week bouncing at our parks,” he claimed. With an hour’s jumping costing upwards of £8.95, and a license allowing the firm to sell drinks as well as food, it is easy to see how the takings add up. Starting a trampoline park takes a certain amount of risk, however. Harrison puts the set-up costs at between £1.2m and £4m, and said that the clamour to open parks was causing problems for some firms. “People are offering crazy rents to gazump other operators,” he said. “A lot of the issues around opening a park is getting a time to get fitted out. One supplier I know of has a waiting list of a year for equipment.” In Chester, two 50,000 sq ft parks have been given permission to open next door to each other, while Hull already boasts three parks. “We are going to see one or two drop out of the market because of crazy decisions,” Harrison predicted. As so often with inventions that seem initially ludicrous but eventually become part of our national fabric (see also: dental floss, the Frappuccino, spinning), trampoline parks originated in the US. The first was opened in Las Vegas in 2004 by a firm called Sky Zone, which now turns over around $240m (£183m) a year. It was watching an episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians that one of Oxygen’s directors started to think about importing the idea to the UK. “He refuses to admit it, but he was,” said Stalker. “The Kardashians went trampolining and it gave him an idea. I then went out to the States and toured a few places and thought it would work over here. It appealed to me largely with my health and fitness hat on. I was keen to find something to address the UK’s obesity epidemic and I knew that most people wanted to exercise more as long as they don’t actually feel like they are exercising.” Oxygen’s Greater Manchester branch opened in June near the Trafford Centre. It was heaving over the summer holidays, as children jostled for space on the trampolines with corporate groups from firms such as Lego, Travelodge and Chill Factore, an indoor ski slope opposite. On Friday, all was quiet, barring a group of boisterous personal trainers from David Lloyd Leisure, who were in on a team-building afternoon. After a meeting in one of the party rooms, the group were issued with special non-slip yellow socks (£2) and then set about bounding over the many trampolines underneath the corrugated roof. Chellee McGrath, a newly qualified trainer, looked reticent. “I’ve never done trampolining. I was a bit wary at first, a little bit scared,” she said, before a colleague tried and failed to convince her to do a forward flip into a pool filled with chunks of protective foam. Once an hour the tannoy plays either Saturday Night by Whigfield, The Ketchup Song or the Macarena, prompting staff to bounce around as they do the actions. No one is allowed to jump until they’ve sat through a video safety briefing. “There is the potential for things to go really, really wrong here. Obviously it’s a high-risk activity,” said manager Nick Aveyard. Oxygen has an accident rate of 0.12 he said – so just more than one in 100 customers hurt themselves, compared with 0.25 across the industry as a whole, he claimed. It is usually the adults who come a cropper, said Aveyard. “Mostly sprains and strains when they overcook it”, but also the occasional broken tooth when a jumper forgets that the body contracts like a concertina when jumping and their knees end up hitting their jaws. Trampolining is particularly unkind to those with pelvic floor issues: Kate Winslet has said she no longer dared jump on them because of a weak bladder.  Research carried out by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents before the latest trampolining craze took off showed there were more than 13,000 trampoline injuries a year, and almost three-quarters had happened at home. Brendan Casey, a business analyst from Manchester, remembers a corporate fun day a few years ago organised by Bupa Hospitals, when a colleague from operations, Dave, ended up needing his own operation. He’d had “a few Budweisers” before launching himself on a trampoline and ended up with his very broken arm between the frame and the padding, recalled Casey: “His cries scared birds from the trees.” 