Rolling coverage of all the day’s political developments as they happen 
Andrew Sparrow 
16:49
 Let me be clear: This strike action is politically motivated. It has affected passengers for far too long. Union leaders have even described this action as ‘carrying on Fidel’s work’. This will be of no comfort to passengers who just want to get to work. Caroline Lucas, the Green MP for Brighton Pavilion who tabled the urgent question, said Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR), the parent company of Southern, should lose its franchise because of the long-running problems with the service. She told MPs:  This situation is intolerable and the government can’t simply just wash its hands of involvement so will the minister roll up his sleeves and get stuck in to resolve the crisis? To end this stalemate, will your department take charge of this contract in the open, strip GTR of the franchise, bring it back in house? That at least would increase the transparency around what is going on here. Maynard said the terms of a compensation package for season ticket holders would see them receive the equivalent of one free month of travel and that Southern was doing “everything in its power” to improve services. He told Lucas she should speak to her “close friends” in the RMT and get them to call off their strike action starting this week. That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. 
16:24
 Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, is speaking to Sky News about the article 50 case. He is doing the interview from Sleaford and North Hykeham where he has been campaigning ahead of Thursday’s byelection. He is standing in front of a Ukip byelection banner. Unfortunately Ukip couldn’t spell Hykeham properly. 
16:19
 At Policy Exchange there is also an interesting blog on the Casey review from David Goodhart, its head of demography, immigration and integration and author of a controversial history of immigration. Goodhart says: So after a year of investigation Louise Casey has come up with no real surprises or big ideas on integration—nor a phrase to match Ted Cantle’s popularisation of “parallel lives” 15 years ago—but in language and analysis this is by some distance the most serious and unblinking work on the subject to emanate from a quasi-official source. Britain’s integration efforts in recent years have been “well meaning but grossly insufficient to cope with the scale of the challenge” and “nowhere near enough emphasis has been put on integration in communities to match the pace and scale of change in population.” This is not the usual nervous, hedged-about language of official integration-speak. In terms of recommendations there is nothing very meaty but a sensible focus on data collection by local authorities, English language teaching and ethnic mixing in schools. 
16:09
 Ted Cantle, who carried out his own review into integration after the race riots in Bradford, Burnley and Oldham in 2001, has written a blog on the Casey review. He concludes: Dame Louise has put forward a serious analysis of the problem and developed a broad range of measures to tackle it. In some areas, she has not gone as far as she might –and probably wanted to – but has hinted at ways they could be developed. But it remains to be seen if the Government will have the good sense to accept Casey’s recommendations, let alone extend them. 
15:49
 And the Muslim Council of Britain has given the Casey review a mixed response. It has welcomed some of Dame Louise Casey’s proposals. But it says the report is being championed “by those who pursue a divisive agenda and a hostile attitude towards Muslims” and it says the report was a “missed opportunity”. Harun Khan, the MCB’s secretary general, said:  Any initiative that facilitates better integration of all Britons should be welcomed, and we certainly endorse the few, fair and supportable suggestions proposed by the Casey review. This includes the promotion of the English language, sharing of best practice across the nation and a range of measures to tackle exclusion, inequality and segregation in school placements. And while we agree that forced marriages, female genital mutilation, honour-based killings and other practices have no place in modern Britain, we would argue that our faith tradition can be deployed to tackle what are essentially cultural practices.  I hope we can facilitate robust and active conversations in British Muslim communities where we are frank about the challenges facing us and creative enough to meet them head on.  Sadly, however, I fear that this report could be a missed opportunity. We need to improve integration, and it needs to involve the active participation of all Britons, not just Muslims. As former prime minister David Cameron has stated, ‘integration is a two-way street’. The report has little discussion on white flight, and could have delved deeper into the economic structural barriers to integration. 
15:33
 Here is Sarah Champion, the shadow minister for women and equalities, responding to the Casey report on behalf of Labour. Champion said:  Labour welcomes the Casey report as it provides an opportunity to address the big social challenges facing our country. This report demonstrates that the government cannot continue to hollow out social infrastructure, local councils and public services that do so much to encourage integration, without paying a much higher price in the long term. Casey’s key recommendation is the importance of being able to speak English, without which isolation and subjugation are more easily able to take hold. Sadly, the government have scrapped mandatory ESOL classes and cut adult learning services to the bone. This must be urgently addressed. It is now time that we recognise the problems and opportunities highlighted in the Casey report and address these in a realistic and mature way. A Labour government will put forward a real plan for a socially and economically fairer Britain; tackling isolation, division and mistrust, and properly funding vital services which help bring communities together. 
15:28
 Donald Trump’s vow to heavily tax US companies moving operations abroad has not dented the Government’s optimism about attracting fresh investment to Northern Ireland, the secretary of state has said. As the Press Association reports: James Brokenshire said he remained positive about the potential for growing NI/US economic ties under a Trump White House.  The president-elect took to Twitter over the weekend to warn US companies they would be making an “expensive mistake” if they cost domestic jobs by relocating operations overseas.  He suggested they would be subject to a 35% tax if they tried to sell products made abroad back into the US.  Around 125 US companies operate in Northern Ireland, employing 24,000 people.  Asked about Trump’s protectionist rhetoric, Brokenshire, who is in New York to meet with business representatives, said he would judge the incoming president on his actions. “The US president-elect said during the campaign on equally doing a trading deal with the United Kingdom too,” he said.  “So I think we need to judge by the actions of the presidency.”  
15:24
 Sarah Olney, winner of the Richmond Park byelection, has been welcomed to Westminster by her new colleagues, Lib Dem MPs and peers. 
15:00
 Anna Soubry, the Conservative former business minister and leading pro-European, told the World at One that she would happily vote for the Labour motion being debated on Wednesday saying the government should publish a Brexit plan before triggering article 50. (See 1.52pm.) She told the programme. I have read the motion and I have to say I can’t see anything in it I don’t approve of and could not support ... I can tell you now that the contents of that motion are eminently supportable. Asked how many other Tory MPs would be willing to back the motion, Soubry pointed out that when there was an election for Conservative MPs to serve on the Commons Brexit committee, up to 80 Conservatives voted for her even though she failed to get elected. They were voting for her as a “fierce remainer”, she said, implying that up to 80 Tories might be tempted to support Labour. But she also said she hoped that there would not be a vote. In October, when Labour tabled a motion calling for a debate before article 50 was invoked, the government tabled an amendment effectively giving Labour what it wanted and it was passed without opposition. Soubry said she hoped the same thing would happen again. 
14:15
 Philip Hammond, the chancellor, and David Davis, the Brexit secretary, have hosted a joint meeting with leading bankers to discuss Brexit. The session covered the “opportunities and challenges” that Brexit presents for the financial services industry, according to the government news release, and “the insights offered will be fed into the government’s ongoing analysis on the options for the UK’s withdrawal from the EU”. The meeting was the first of its kind co-chaired by the Treasury and the department for exiting the EU and what may be the most significant thing about it is that it reinforces the impression that Hammond and Davis have recently formed a significant cabinet alliance and that together they are championing “Brexit pragmatism” (my phrase, not theirs). 
13:52
 Labour motion for Weds calling for more info from gov on #brexit. Former Tory minister tells #wato 'up to 40' Tory MPs could vote for it' pic.twitter.com/2P3XyQ7Mka 'If the government doesn't want us to vote for it, they should give us a reason' former Tory minister told #WATO 
13:01
 Ukip is claiming that many of its arguments have been vindicated by the Casey report. This is from David Kurten, a member of the Welsh assembly and Ukip’s education spokesman. Many of the report’s recommendations are things which Ukip has been saying for years. All schoolchildren should learn English, and have a proper understanding of British history and culture, whatever background they are from. And this is from John Bickley, Ukip’s immigration spokesman. Today, [Casey’s] damning report on integration has been released. It pulls no punches and is an excoriating critique of the Labour, Conservatives and Liberal Democrat parties’ support of mass immigration, multiculturalism and political correctness, which has led to whole towns having changed “out of all recognition” ... For years Ukip has been the only political party willing to point out the failings of mass, uncontrolled immigration and multiculturalism. For this we have been accused of being racist by a cowardly Establishment. That won’t wash any longer. The main parties have singularly failed to address the impact of uncontrolled immigration on mainly working class communities and the British people have had enough.  Leaving the EU will be a major step in taking back control of our borders and immigration. However before that happens the government needs do the following with immediate effect: (i) significantly reduce immigration from non EU countries; (ii) ban the practising of sharia law (there is only one law and that is the law of the land); and (iii) force all public sector institutions to apply the law equally to all citizens and not give preferential treatment to ethnic minorities. 
12:38
 Here is a full summary of the Number 10 lobby briefing. While others are seeming to make clear that they want to frustrate the will of the British people by slowing down the process of leaving and trying to tie the government’s hands in negotiation, the government is getting on with respecting what the British people decided and making a success of Brexit. If you are backing the UK team, you want them to be able to go into the negotiation and get the best deal possible. It’s very important that we are able to get the best deal possible, and that means not having our hands tied in negotiation. At the moment there is no article 50 bill, but the government will have to pass one if it loses the challenge in the supreme court. The spokeswoman said that most people wanted “certainty” over Brexit and that the government was providing certainty by saying that article 50 would be invoked by the end of March and that there would be “no going back” (ie, no second referendum). The UK’s WTO commitments currently form part of the European Union’s schedules. When we leave the EU we will need UK-specific schedules. In order to minimise disruption to global trade as we leave the EU, over the coming period the government will prepare the necessary draft schedules which replicate as far as possible our current obligations. The government will undertake this process in dialogue with the WTO membership. The prime minister’s spokeswoman said that this was “prudent, preparatory work” and that this work “does not in any way prejudge the position that we will take in our negotiations or the outcome of any of our negotiations”. Updated
12:00
 The Number 10 lobby briefing went on a bit longer than usual. These were probably the two best lines. I will post a full summary shortly. UPDATE: There is a full summary now at 12.38pm. Updated
10:58
 Services sector activity jumped to a ten-month high last month as the UK economy showed further signs of resilience in the face of Brexit uncertainty, the Press Association reports. The closely watched Markit/CIPS services purchasing managers’ index (PMI) reached a surprise 55.2 in November, up from 54.5 in October and above economists’ forecasts of 54.  A reading above 50 indicates growth.  The PMI report said the strong performance from Britain’s powerhouse services sector, coupled with last month’s robust results from the construction and manufacturing industry, puts the UK economy on course to grow by 0.5% in the fourth quarter.  It comes after the services industry, which accounts for around 75% of UK economic growth, saw its strongest rate of expansion since January, fuelled by a “solid increase” in new work.  While the Brexit-hit pound caused input price inflation to grow sharply in November, growth eased for the first time in six months. I’m off to the Number 10 lobby briefing now. I will post again after 11.30am. 
10:44
 My colleague Gideon Goldberg has done a wordle of the Casey report. He says the term Muslim gets mentioned 249 times, Christian 35 times, Hindu 23 times, Jewish 18 times, Sikh 11 times and Buddhist five times. 