 Google chairman Eric Schmidt has weighed in to the debate about artificial intelligence, and whether robots, drones, self-driving cars and other machines are going to take over the world and enslave humanity. Or, at least, nick people’s jobs. “These concerns are normal. They’re also to some degree misguided,” said Schmidt at the Financial Times Innovate America conference, according to Wired. “Go back to the history of the loom. There was absolute dislocation, but I think all of us are better off with more mechanised ways of getting clothes made... There’s lots of evidence that when computers show up, wages go up. There’s lots of evidence that people who work with computers are paid more than people without.” That’s not much comfort for people who don’t work with computers, although Schmidt argued that improving education is the key “to get people prepared for this new world”. Oh, but the best quote is Schmidt describing the result of Google developing a neural network and pumping 11,000 hours of YouTube videos in, to see what the artificial intelligence could learn. “It discovered the concept of ‘cat’. I’m not quite sure what to say about that, except that that’s where we are...” What are your views on the artificial intelligence and machines versus humanity debate? The comments section is open for your views. What else is on the tech radar this morning? Some links to read and discuss: Has the famously-unshutdownable filesharing site been shut down? Well, Swedish police raided a Stockholm address and took the site offline yesterday, so for now, yes. But on past form, it wouldn’t be a surprise at all if the site sprang back up again with new servers. Although in any case, The Pirate Bay may still be seen as a figurehead for piracy by the authorities and entertainment rightsholders, but it’s far from the only site of its kind. Apple is still enmeshed in a class-action lawsuit over its iTunes and iPod DRM back in the day, despite the removal from the case of the two plaintiffs part of the class-action. Now a third has stepped forward, who bought an iPod in the period under question. Amazon wants the US Federal Aviation Authority to get a move on amending regulation on testing drones outdoors. “Without the ability to test outdoors in the United States soon, we will have no choice but to divert even more of our [drone] research and development resources abroad,” the company wrote to the FAA. Okay, the tech link here is a bit tenuous – leaked emails from Sony Pictures about negotiations to get a biopic up and running of the late Apple CEO. But it’s a fun insight into the... let’s say robust talk between executives fretting about the casting and production process. 