Wells Fargo’s chief executive and chairman, John Stumpf, is retiring effective immediately from both the bank and the board in the wake of the scandal over its sales practices. Stumpf “will not receive any severance payment”, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman confirmed to the Guardian. The bank announced the news on Wednesday after a volatile month for the bank. Early in September, Wells Fargo announced that it had reached a $185m settlement with US regulators for its illegal sales practices. Since 2011 the bank fired more than 5,300 employees for opening more than 2m accounts without customers’ permission. The former employees opened these unauthorized accounts to meet the sales quotas imposed by the company.  Since then, Stumpf has testified before both House and Senate and said that the fired employees were not part of an “orchestrated effort”. As of 1 October, Wells Fargo has terminated the practice of setting sales quotas in its retail banking.  US lawmakers, including Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, have called on Stumpf to resign, return his earnings and submit to a criminal investigation.  “You should resign,” Warren told Stumpf last month. “You should give back the money that you took while this scam was going on, and you should be criminally investigated by both the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission.” By the end of September, the Wells Fargo board announced that it was launching a new investigation into its retail banking and sales practices.  Stumpf was to forgo his salary while the investigation was ongoing; in 2015 he made about $19.3m. Stumpf also forfeited about $41m in unvested equity awards in the aftermath of the scandal. “While I have been deeply committed and focused on managing the company through this period, I have decided it is best for the company that I step aside. I know no better individual to lead this company forward than Tim Sloan,” Stumpf said in a statement. Stumpf has been with the company for 34 years and became CEO in June 2007 and chairman in 2010. Tim Sloan, Wells Fargo’s president and chief operating officer, will take over as chief executive. Sloan, who has been with the bank for 29 years, will retain the title of the president. He was also elected to the bank’s board.  Stephen Sanger, the Wells Fargo board’s lead director, was elected to serve as the board’s non-executive chairman.  When Stumpf testified before the US House of Representatives, lawmakers pressed him on whether he thought it was appropriate for one person to serve as both the chief executive and the chairman.  “For our company, I believe we have the right structure. I serve at the will of the board and the board can make a decision about that,” Stumpf said at the time. He told the lawmakers that he was dedicating all his energy to leading Wells Fargo and that he spent all of his waking hours thinking about it.  Within an hour of the announcement, Wells Fargo shares went up up 1.6% in after-hours trading. Wells Fargo is scheduled to report its third-quarter earnings on Friday.  Stumpf chose to retire so as not to be a distraction, said Sloan, the new chief executive in an interview with CNBC. When asked if he felt that Stumpf’s departure was a necessary condition in order for the bank to move forward, he said: “John did.” He went on to say that the bank will not allow the past five weeks to define it. 