 "I try to play it cool, you know - but I not cool." It used to be one of Goran Ivanisevic's best jokes as to why he lost. But over the past week and a half the quote has been transformed into a description better suited to the kind of extraordinary victories he has achieved over himself.  Goran has calmly conquered not only Ivanisevic and four opponents, but may possibly being doing the same to the spectre which has looked likely to haunt him for ever - the failure to capture a title he has had more than enough ability to win. Could he, just when retirement seemed inevitable, rediscover the dream after all?  To do that he will have to overcome today an opponent who has suffered similar internal battles. Marat Safin was world No1 until the last match of last year, and his demise this year - during which he has won not a single title - is another of the great mysteries of the mind.  The 21-year-old Monaco-based Russian has also been bothered with a back injury. But that seemed to have righted itself long ago as his four wins here, a venue where he has only ever won once before, have indicated .  Safin attributes his improvement to his coach Mats Wilander to whom he has promised to pays $100 every time he smashes a racket. He used to get through 40 a year; here they have remained pristine.  But he also makes calls to Tony Pickard, the former coach to Stefan Edberg and Greg Rusedski, who has become a friend. "He's a very nice boy," the Englishman says of Safin. "But he's just a big kid. He's got a lot to learn." Pickard's advice is to do what Edberg did to overcome the problems in his head. "It's quite simple - turn every negative into a positive," he says.  If Safin can do that he will be extremely dangerous, although both experience and sentiment suggest that Ivanisevic ought to carry his fairy tale into the semis. There he ought to be joined by Andre Agassi and Pat Rafter.  They have contrasting tasks. Agassi faces Nicolas Escude, a Frenchman who ought to be better on slow surfaces, but isn't, because he serves and volleys so well. What's more he has beaten Agassi before and Mr Glitz had better be careful.  Rafter meets Thomas Enqvist, who ought to volley much more than he does, but is dangerous from the back on grass anyway. Rafter will get plenty of opportunities to get to the net, even when the tall Swede is serving, but he is likely face pressure when he gets there.  Rafter had quite a struggle in getting past the Czech Slava Dosedel and the Russian Mikhail Youzhny. He will need to play better against Enqvist. His serve has been lacking zip and he may well be protecting a shoulder which only had a certain number of deliveries left in it.  The Australian may also be labouring under the burden that this is his last real chance. He admits that he choked against Sampras in last year's final - and now Sampras is gone. He admits that retirement could be close - and here is a great way to finish. Rafter has much on his mind. 