 And that’s pretty much the last kick of the match! A stunning counter attack deep into stoppage time has given the Yellow Submarine a crucial advantage in this Europa League semi-final. Villarreal stepped it up towards the end of the game, and got their reward. Jurgen Klopp looks visibly deflated, and no wonder: his side are suddenly up against it if they want to reach the final in Basle next month! Last word to palindrome fan Andy Gordon: “Bugger. I preferred the 0-0 aesthetic!” Updated
 Liverpool are playing a high line. Suarez bursts after a long ball down the right, and he’s got the beating of Toure. He draws Mignolet as he reaches the area, then lays off into the centre for Lopez, who sidefoots into an empty net! A brilliant move by the home side, and a sucker punch for Liverpool! Updated
 90 min +1: Milner, on the right, crosses towards Benteke, who can’t quite get enough on his header from eight yards. The ball breaks left to Ibe, but he can’t keep the move going. This game has burst into life at the very end! 
 88 min: ... another corner, Lovren heading behind. And then from that, Suarez miscontrols in the deep, and suddenly Moreno is racing clear up the other end! For a second it looks like he’s going to replicate his pitch-length strike against Spurs last season, but instead slashes wildly high and left from the edge of the box. In fairness, he had Musacchio breathing down his neck, but even so, that’s a chance for a crucial away goal spurned. Updated
 87 min: Bakambu is so close to scoring! He’s been quiet all evening, but suddenly he bursts down the inside-right channel, reaches the edge of the area, and powers a curler towards the bottom left. It’s going in, but Mignolet stretches long to fingertip wide of the post! What a save! And from the corner ... 
 86 min: Ibe bursts into the box down the left and reaches the touchline. He scoops long, Clyne rising at the far post but unable to direct his header on target. The ball floats harmlessly wide right. 
 84 min: Milner loops a cross into the danger zone from the right, but Mario eyebrows away under no real pressure from any red shirt. Moreno tries to re-energise the attack on the left, but can’t get the ball back into the box. 
 83 min: Castillejo makes a couple of runs down the left, but can’t quite send Liverpool into panic, although a neat enough one-two with Suarez nearly comes off. 
 82 min: Liverpool spend a couple of minutes knocking the ball around the middle, with Villarreal sitting deep. It’s an unexciting stand-off. 
 80 min: Free kick to Villarreal, 30 yards out on the right. A chance to load the box. Suarez overhits the floater, and it’s easy for Mignolet to spring up and claim. 
 78 min: Ibe makes good down the left and earns a throw. Then, just after the ball’s flung back into play, he’s needlessly caught offside. Klopp doesn’t look particularly happy with that, either, though it’s his own man getting the laser stare now. 
 75 min: Adrian Lopez comes on for Soldado. Lucas then hoicks a long ball down the inside-left channel, and Lallana chases it from deep. He’s clear on goal! And then brought down in the area by Bailly. But the flag’s up for offside. A very, very marginal decision, that. On the touchline, Klopp throws a few semaphore shapes before engaging the fourth official in philosophical debate. Updated
 73 min: Clyne fires a low cross into the Villarreal box from the right. It’s only half cleared, and Allen feeds the ball out to Clyne again. Clyne dinks it in this time, and Lallana is gifted a header six yards out. He can’t power it goalwards, though, and Villarreal hack clear. 
 70 min: The ref didn’t do a very good job of calming Soldado down. He slides across and flips Lucas into the air like a fried egg. He should be booked for that, but like Toure a few seconds earlier, he escapes sanction. See, it all works out in the long run. 
 69 min: This is getting a little feisty. Soldado and Toure come together in the middle of the park. Toure’s a bit lucky to escape a yellow card, as he wins the ball with a high boot. Soldado isn’t happy about it at all. The referee does his best to calm him down. 
 67 min: Marvellous scenes on the touchline after Lucas and Pina come together in the midfield. A big 50-50 crunch, but Lucas is penalised. Managers Klopp and Marcelino spend a few seconds gesticulating at each other, then have a full and frank exchange of views, before smiling and hugging each other. All pals again. 
 65 min: Milner plays a brilliant snappy pass down the inside-right channel to suddenly spring Firmino into the Villarreal box. Firmino turns and hammers hard towards the bottom right. Asenjo fingertips the shot onto the post, and the ball twangs away at speed. A fine pass, a magnificent shot, and a stunning save. Hats off. Updated
 63 min: Poor old Jaume Costa’s got a mouth full of blood, having taken a whack from Lovren’s elbow. There’s no question of foul play, though; it was a very strange incident, with the Villarreal defender running into the Liverpool player’s limply hanging arm. There wasn’t much elbow point to work with there at all! That’s very odd, and extremely unlucky. But he’ll be OK. 
 61 min: Ibe skitters down the left, cuts inside, and lays off to Allen, whose shot from 20 yards is meek. Milner picks up possession with a view to having another go, but miscontrols. Villarreal try to break upfield, but leave the ball to Lucas, who slides one down the right. If Firmino was on the front foot, he’d have been clear, but he checks back instead, and all momentum is lost. Liverpool aren’t playing badly, but they’re struggling to move up through the gears in the final third. 
 60 min: Jaume Costa goes in the book for a late slide on Clyne. He can’t really complain, and to his credit, he doesn’t. 
 58 min: Suarez scampers off down the left wing, nutmegging Milner to wild cheers. The run comes to nothing, but what a piece of skill. He’s a European nutmeg magnet, poor Milner. 
 55 min: Mario makes good down the right, and his low cross causes all manner of pinball nonsense in the Liverpool box. Bakambu tries to work room for a shot, but is forced to lay off to Soldado upon being swarmed. The ball breaks right to the man who started it all off; Mario blasts wildly over the bar from a tight angle, neither an effective cross nor realistic shot. 
 51 min: Milner has a dig from a position on the right. It’s deflected away for a corner on the left. The ball’s worked out to Moreno, 25 yards out. His shot isn’t up to much, and Asenjo claims easily. 
 49 min: Villarreal are nearly made to pay for their poor decision at that corner. Liverpool edge their way up the park, and Lallana whips a ball into the box from the right that very nearly fluke-loops, Paul Konchesky style, into the far corner. Asenjo does very well to paw the ball away from danger. 
 47 min: Another corner for Villarreal, who have started this second half with great intent. It’s played short, and what a waste it is. The chance to hover another ball above this set-piece-shaky Liverpool defence is turned down. 
 46 min: Suarez comes at Liverpool immediately, and his pass towards Soldado down the inside-right channel forces Toure into stretching and conceding a corner. From the set piece. Bakambu rises above Lovren and from six yards crashes a header off the outside of the right-hand post. On the touchline, Klopp raises a wry eyebrow. His side should be behind. Updated
 Liverpool get the ball rolling for the second half. They’ve made a change, and it’s not the one you might expect: Jordon Ibe comes on for Philippe Coutinho. An injury? Nobody knows yet. “VIL 0-0 LIV,” recites Andy Gordon. “I am enjoying the palindromic score summary on the TV screen. OK, I’m easily amused.” 
 Time for one last corner. It’s Liverpool’s, out on the right. Lucas gets his eyebrows to it, Asenjo claims, and that’s that for the opening 45. A half which promised more than it delivered, but it was entertaining enough, and the second 45 promises fascination. No flipping! 
 44 min: A bit of tiki-taka by Liverpool in front of the Villarreal box, Clyne, Lallana, Firmino and Coutinho all involved. But it’s way too intricate, and eventually possession is given up. Bombing down the flanks seemed a better option, to be honest. 
 42 min: Bruno slips a ball down the middle of the park for Soldado, who turns and shoots from the right-hand edge of the D. He sends a fine curler inches wide of the right-hand post. Wow, that was close. Mignolet waves his arms dismissively, kidding on he had it covered, but he’s fooling nobody. If that was on target, it was in. Updated