 Technology is nothing if not tribal. During a three-month artist residency at Microsoft Research last year, I felt like an interloper anthropologist in the inner circle. That feeling came to the fore one morning on the commuter shuttle to Microsoft when I spotted a young woman's tattoo. Peeking out below her T-shirt sleeve were four slanted blue squares, the inimitable symbol of Microsoft Windows. I was fixated. What would motivate someone to ink a logo on their body? What happens when they leave their job? Or that product becomes obsolete? I began a treasure hunt. Every night, I scoured search engines for pictures of technology tattoos – and uncovered hundreds upon hundreds. I turned up a fascinating set of digital photos of inflamed skin and fresh ink bearing the name of virtually every tech giant. Some were current, including Google and Facebook; others were hilariously antiquated, like the Gateway computer cow or the "MySpace, a place for friends" tattoo etched forever more on one man's stomach. Each tattoo bearer had an obvious affection for each brand. And for an industry founded on principles of constant progress, I saw these permanent pledges as a memento mori not just for digital mortality, but the inevitable death of every one of these companies. After exhausting the Fortune 500 list, things got even weirder. I uncovered tattoo portraits of the heroic founders: Steve Jobs is by far the most popular, but Bill Gates isn't without his loyalists. While I wasn't able to unearth an inky homage to Mark Zuckerberg, I did find historical figures of computing history, including Alan Turing and Ada Lovelace, brought back to life as arm sleeves. Computer history came next. Here, nostalgia ruled: Atari logos; Nintendo characters, from Toadstool to Kirby; an entire Pac-Man game on one man's backside. Retro controllers and 8-bit typefaces were so abundant they threatened to overwhelm my collection. As the gamer track took me closer to popular culture, I decided to allow only one tattoo from the world of entertainment: a forearm bearing the glowing, artificially intelligent eye of HAL 9000 from Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. Sci-fi seemed appropriate, surrounded as I was by computer science innovators. Next, I found a trove of people fantasising about a future when flesh will merge with technology, from circuit diagrams on electrical engineers to full-back mechanical spinal chords designed to make the flesh look like a corset. Some of their "cybernetic" tattoos actually worked. I discovered many with the unmistakable black squares of a machine-readable QR code. Like an inscrutable crossword puzzle, these patterns contain messages only legible to mobile-phone cameras. I decoded some. They led to personal websites, like artist Scott Blake's guide to QR code tattoos. But when it comes to body modifications that interact with software, hidden messages are just the tip of the needle ... I had entered the world of "wetware", a subculture exploring how bodily implants may enhance the senses. Enthusiasts conduct experiments without anaesthetics in under-the-radar tattoo parlours. They post operation videos and swap glitch stories on the Grindhouse Wetware messageboard. They discuss how computer-chip sensors, like the Circadia, embedded under the skin keep a journal of health data from heart rate to stress levels. Then there's the xNT implant, a radio frequency chip that acts as the key to your home. Something as simple as a magnet embedded in a fingertip enabled the colourblind designer Steve Cordova to interpret colour through its electromagnetic impulses. As if predicted by 1980s cyberpunk literature, it's a future where gritty street culture finds new uses – and misuses – for our increasingly pervasive technology. Cybernetics made me step back and pay attention to counterculture web activists: an arm sleeve tattoo of hacker group Anonymous' notorious mask; a bitcoin logo above a woman's crotch; a double portrait of Julian Assange with Chelsea Manning (formerly Bradley Manning) flanking a WikiLeaks logo and the words "This Machine Kills Fascists." Like opposing tribes, these showed a tech backlash, a stark contrast to the celebratory logos that kickstarted my obsession.  Events like Snowden's revelations and the catastrophic Heartbleed computer virus – not to mention Facebook's bid to control our emotions – have brought a distrust and fear of the power of companies like Facebook and Google over our lives. This cynicism is now turning up as body art. It looks like the techie tattoo seekers have come full circle into the land of the suspicious, along with the rest of us. • MySpace to Sega: unfortunate tech-themed tattoos – in pictures 