Tobacco shares are in focus, both for their defensive qualities in a down day for the market and also in the wake of last week’s $47bn offer by BAT for US group Reynolds. BAT is up 42p at £46.53 while Imperial Brands is 21p better at £39.59 after Deutsche Bank raised its price target from £43 to £46. The bank said: Global tobacco may consolidate further with the USA now a theme. Around 27% of Imperial’s 2017 estimated EBITA is generated in the USA. Imperial’s ex-USA growth will be pedestrian; its cash flow generation anything but. The valuation is undemanding; especially so when we consider dividends of around 7% will be paid in the next 16 months [or so]. Bid scenarios incorporating -1% perpetuity growth suggest a valuation between £47 and £51. What may be considered more realistic assumptions as to perpetuity growth dictate valuations considerably higher. We raise our price target to £46 and retain our buy recommendation. On the results front British Airways owner International Airlines Group has climbed 10.8p to 424.3p, despite cutting its forecast for 2016 profit growth from a low double digit percentage to around 7%, due to the fall in the pound and weaker trading in the wake of the Brexit vote. Royal Bank of Scotland has rise 0.5p to 196.9p after better than expected results, while Whitbread has regained some ground following this week’s figures, up 66p to £35.97. But overall the FTSE 100 has fallen 56.10 points to 6930.47, as investors remain cautious despite Thursday’s better than expected UK GDP. The positive data makes another rate cut by the Bank of England next week increasingly unlikely. ITV is down 3.6p at 168.5p as Credit Suisse cut its price target from 240p to 210p but retained its outperform rating. Among the mid-caps, Unite has dropped 22.5p to 559.5p as Morgan Stanley moved its recommendation on the student accommodation specialist from overweight to underweight and cut its price target from 700p to 590p. The bank said the company could be hit by falling student numbers, partly due to the effect of Brexit on overseas entrants: Fundamentals are holding up for now... Unite has so far benefited from a flight to quality as its exposure is skewed towards better quality institutions, which are seeing growth in student numbers. ... but several headwinds could affect student numbers medium to long term: #1: We think that international student numbers could fall as a result of potential stricter visa rules for non-EU students, who make up 25% of Unite’s tenants, and because EU students, which make up 9% of Unite’s tenants, face tuition fee hikes post Brexit vote – university applications from EU students are already down 9% for the academic year starting Sep 17.  #2: Falling affordability for UK students: UK students have formed the majority of the increase in undergraduate student numbers in recent years, and penetration has grown more among the less affluent than the more affluent. Less well off students are likely to face increasing affordability issues: i) maintenance grants have been converted to repayable loans, affecting 20% of students (half of whom see the grant as essential for their studies); ii) tuition fees may rise more from 2017; iii) 77% of recent graduates are worried about their student debt.  #3: Risk of oversupply and softening yields: We estimate the current pipeline of purpose built beds equates to about a quarter of existing beds. According to our channel checks, pockets of oversupply are appearing in some markets and demand for secondary assets is softening.  