 For the first time since Lleyton Hewitt, Pat Rafter, Jelena Dokic and Mark Philippoussis were in their pomp, there is no shortage of Australian tennis talent. The locals’ Australian Open challenge may have ended with Bernard Tomic’s defeat to Andy Murray on Monday night, with no home player able to reach the quarter-finals of either draw, but there has been enough talent on show over the past week or so to hint at an exciting future for the game down under. The $64,000 question that remains unanswered, though, is whether that promise can be turned into something more tangible. In terms of raw talent, at the top of the pile sits Nick Kyrgios. Few people doubt Kyrgios is Australia’s most talented player, including the man himself, yet his temperament, of course, remains suspect. That aspect has been brought into sharp focus over his three recent outings at Melbourne Park where there has been a constant, unforgiving focus on his behaviour, yet many people tend to forget Roger Federer’s struggles with his temper as a junior, before he learnt to conserve energy by reining in his emotions.  That is not to suggest that Kyrgios will ever compare with the Swiss master, yet aside from Federer, Kyrgios remains the only male teenager to have reached two grand slam quarter-finals in the past 15 years.  He is the antithesis of the recently-retired Hewitt, a grinder who fought for every point throughout his 18-year career. Hewitt’s lack of weapons made it difficult for him to challenge at slams in the second half of his career, but Kyrgios has weapons. He has great acceleration through his service action and a blistering forehand, potentially one of the best in the game.  Still, there are no guarantees that he’ll ever amount to more than, say, Gael Monfils, sliding around on rubbery limbs, perennially ranked in the teens with possessing one hell of a highlights reel.  The final point Kyrgios played in his third round loss to Tomas Berdych revealed a lot about his approach to the game. Trailing 4-5 and 15-40 in the fourth set, he tried to slap a second serve ace down the middle, rather than kicking the serve into play and fighting the point out. The match was by no means lost and the resulting double fault was an undisciplined way to exit a major tournament. His Hopman Cup-winning team-mate, Daria Gavrilova, has been the surprise packet of the tournament, ousting underdone sixth seed Petra Kvitova and letting a golden opportunity slip to make the final eight in her three-set defeat to Carla Suarez Navarro. When the dust finally settles, a fourth round exit in just her sixth grand slam tournament won’t sting quite as much for Gavrilova.  How good can “Dasha” be? There’s a lot to like about her. She’s a terrier. Her court coverage is excellent and she puts a lot of topspin on both groundstrokes, making her an awkward opponent, particularly on hard courts. But she can get extremely tight, causing her to frame balls on vital points. It didn’t quite cost her against Kvitova or Kristina Mladenovic, but it certainly did in the final set against Suarez Navarro. As Sam Stosur has painfully discovered, once opponents sense a capacity to self-destruct, they never quite believe that they’re out of a match.  Like Kyrgios, Gavrilova spends a lot of time burning unnecessary energy on court. It can be tiring watching her between points. She looks to her box for reassurance far too often. Once a player is on court, there’s not much that their coach can (or should) do and while reading mantras mid-match isn’t illegal, such wisdom should be instilled in a player by the time they walk out onto the court.  Replicating this result in any of the slams in 2016 won’t be easy. Given the obvious upside to Gavrilova’s game, a top 20 ranking is obtainable but if she wants to compete deep into the second week of a slam, she’s got to learn to keep her emotions in check. Unlike Kyrgios, this is something that she seems to now grasp.  Bernard Tomic’s on-court demeanour is markedly better than his two younger compatriots, giving little away to opponents. Even though Andy Murray was a class above him in their fourth round encounter, Tomic has now learnt the value of gaining a top 16 seeding and how it can open up a draw in a major tournament.  There’s a lot to like about Tomic as a player. He’s one of the flattest ball strikers on the circuit, he spreads the court nicely on serve and varies his ball speed cleverly – as Gilles Simon did in his five-set loss to Novak Djokovic – all of which makes him frustrating to play against.  He also uses his sliced backhand to great effect. As much as the emphasis is on power in today’s game, having a sound defensive game is equally important. The likes of Djokovic and Murray can defend just as well as they can attack. Murray’s demolition of power hitter Sam Groth in the second round, particularly the weighting of his lobs, was a thing of beauty.  The biggest obstacle for Tomic to overcome is his poor court coverage. While his 195-centimetre frame affords him good reach, his side-to-side movements and his inability to track well-disguised drop shots remain concerns. His range of movement is still improving since undergoing hip surgery two years ago. How much it can improve remains the big question.  In the next 18-24 months, the top five players in the men’s game will finally start to splinter. If Tomic can stay injury free in this period and manage to keep the off court dramas to a minimum, he’ll be the Australian player best positioned to seize this opening. 