 Nationality: American. Age: 33. Lives: Las Vegas,US.  Height: 5ft 11in.  Weight: 12st 5lb.  Turned pro: 1986.Tournaments won: 58 (8 grand slams). Wimbledons: 12 since 1987.  Best performance: winner 1992.  Career prize money: £16,345,500.  World ranking: 2 (highest 1). On court In a nutshell From being at the point of jacking it all in at the end of 1997, Agassi has reinvented himself as a champion, married another and started flogging mobile phones. Grass or pass Practises for Wimbledon on hard courts. His game might not be built for grass but like a new-born lamb he somehow just knows what to do on it. Distinguishing feature Has major issues about the baggy shirt - should it be rolled out, tucked in, hitched up or left flapping? Another few years of constant fidgeting and he might find out. Hot shot The return of serve - if he played it any earlier, he would have to take it off the other guy's racket strings. Pressure point When it all goes pear-shaped, his language is not always appropriate. If distracted - by stray former US presidents in the VIP box, for example - he loses in a trice. The moment Bill Clinton popped in to see him at the 2001 French Open, his game fell apart and SËbastien Grosjean swept through. Not close and no cigar. Outside court Hero or zero Short of wearing his underpants outside his shorts, playing in a cape and launching random invasions against Arab states, he could not be seen as a greater superhero in the US. Happy clappies Always watched by his wife Steffi Graf and fitness trainer Gil Reyes. Reyes, for shadowy reasons surely little to do with fitness coaching, always carries a holdall packed with boiled sweets and a towel. Don't mention Has been defaulted twice for "audible obscenities" - in 1996 against Daniel Nestor and against Cecil Mamiit three years later. Foolishly he swears only when he's winning. British claim His full name is Andre Kirk Agassi. James T Kirk captained the Starship Enterprise in Star Trek, now steered by Jean-Luc Picard. Captain Picard is played by Patrick Stewart, who is British. When can he move in? Luvvy rating Like the Bible he's hugely respected but not all that many people actually know much about him. 3/10 The winning formula Wise old head x waxed body + celebrity spouse = more champion commercials 