The follow up to the best budget smartphone of 2013 has an even bigger screen and better camera - at the same price Google Nexus 5 review  Motorola Moto E review   
 When Motorola released the Moto G in 2013, it was seen as an industry breakthrough, making the most fully featured, high quality smartphone for the lowest price at the time. Moto G sold well and put Motorola back on the map because it got the basics right, using fast and responsive Android software in a solidly built handset and with an battery that could last all day all-day – something that most other smartphones around the £135 mark couldn’t offer last year. With its new Moto G, Motorola is attempting the same trick again – this time with a bigger screen, better camera and at approximately the same price. So does it succeed? The new Moto G follows a similar formula to its predecessor - solid build quality with no bend or flex in the body and a no-nonsense approach to the case. It has a removable, plain, curved back covering two SIM card slots, as well as a microSD card slot which allows the 8GB or 16GB storage to be expanded by up to 32GB. The battery is not user replaceable. The curve makes it easier to hold despite the phone being quite large, while the rounded corners fit into the crease of the palm. This is a chunky phone by today’s standards at 11mm thick; most smartphones are around 8mm thick or less, and weighing 149g it is 6g heavier than the 2013 Moto G. But it has a larger 5in screen, which is 0.5in bigger than the old Moto G and maintains the same 720p HD resolution. The Gorilla Glass scratch-resistant screen has wide viewing angles, is bright and colourful. It has a lower pixel density than its predecessor because the screen is bigger but the resolution the same, with 294 pixels per inch compared to 326ppi. It is visibly less sharp compared side by side with its predecessor, but that can’t really be noticed in general use. Above and below the screen are two front-facing stereo speakers, which are loud and make watching videos without headphones a better experience. They are clear except at maximum volume when distortion is audible. The new Moto G has the same snappy performance as its predecessor, using the same 1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 400 chip and 1GB of RAM. Applications load instantly, swapping between apps is smooth and the phone is lag-free – again trumping almost all of its competition under £150 and even competing with smartphones costing twice the price or more. The Moto G is available with 8 or 16GB of storage space – I would recommend the 16GB – and has a microSD card slot for expanding the storage space for music, movies and photos up to another 32GB. Apps cannot be stored on the SD card and so 8GB can quickly be filled up when apps and games can take up to 1GB or more on their own. With constant push email, lots of notifications, listening to music for 60 minutes over Bluetooth, 1.5 hours of browsing and a bit of light gaming, the Moto G’s battery lasted well over one full day. With light usage it should last two days between charges. The Moto G comes with two SIM card slots, which allows users to have two mobile phone contracts bound to one smartphone. Calls and texts from both lines can be sent and received, while only one can be used for data at any one time. For travellers it means a local SIM can be used for cheap data, calls and texts while in a foreign country, while still being able to receive calls and texts from your home phone contract. Alternatively, one SIM could have a favourable data contract while the other has calls and texts. For those with a work and personal number, both can be put into one phone, while the work number can be switched off in the settings outside working hours. The Moto G runs an almost unmodified Android 4.4.4 “KitKat”, making only the smallest of modifications including the dual-SIM settings menu. Instead it has optimised the software so that everything runs as well as possible, which makes the phone a lot smoother and feels faster than its competitors. Motorola has also promised an upgrade to the next version of Android “L” once it is released, and has been one of the fastest to upgrade previous versions. There are a few optional apps worth using like Motorola Assist, which can automatically silence the phone during scheduled meetings, and Motorola Migrate, which makes it easier to transfer data from another smartphone to the Moto G. Running the standard version of Google’s Android, rather than a modified version like Amazon’s Fire Phone or others, gives the Moto G access to over 1m apps – something other solid budget smartphones - Microsoft’s Nokia, for instance - cannot offer. The new Moto G has an eight-megapixel camera, which is a decent step up from the five-megapixel camera on the old Moto G. It has decent colours and detail, lacking some vibrancy that higher-end smartphone cameras are capable of, but is great for casual photos for Facebook or Twitter. The super-simple interface is another Motorola software tweak. There’s no touch to focus by default – simply tapping the screen takes a photo. Settings slide out from the left. It works great most of the time, but occasionally fails to focus on the right spot. The Moto G’s suggested retail price is £150, but some retailers are already offering it at £140 or less. While not quite as remarkable as the original Moto G, the new Moto G is a solid follow up. Some won’t like the 5in screen, while the lack of 4G is disappointing, so expect a 4G variant in six months. But with dual-SIM support, solid build quality, good battery life and a nice screen, the Moto G is arguably the best value, highest specification smartphone you can buy for £140 - and has a range of features better than some smartphones that sell for twice that price.  Pros: a fast and lag-free experience, standard Android, all-day battery life, dual-SIM slots, microSD card slot and a big screen Cons: heavy and thick device with no NFC, no 4G, and the screen could be sharper • Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device • Motorola 2013 Moto G review – previously the best budget smartphone is just £135 • Which is the best smartphone for less than £150? • Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90? • HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone • Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic • Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor • iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper • Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet 