 Steven Smith mistiming a pull onto his stumps, Watto storming down the crease in search of another overrule that would never come, the clouds holding off and Stuart Broad dancing in the sunshine: to adapt a line from the Peruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, at what precise moment did Australia fuck itself up? It was already clear that Australia do not know how to win Test matches. But on the evidence of Durham, they are becoming extremely skilled at devising more and more interesting ways to lose them. Australia's defeats up to this point in the Ashes had come courtesy of top order batting collapses; here we conjured a middle order collapse instead. Thanks for keeping it fresh, boys. This latest indignity saw the extension of a more worrying trend, too. Against South Africa last year, Australia bossed the contest for two Tests in succession but ended up drawing them both, before folding in the final Test and losing the series 1-0. Now against England, over the last two matches at least, the Australian Test story has come to follow a familiar script: diligently compile a first innings lead, bowl with discipline and composure, set things up nicely for the final day, then either crumble in the final innings if batting, or fall a couple of wickets short of the win if bowling. Australia have been the superior side for at least seven of the last nine days played, and all we have to show for Ryan Harris's toils is a draw at Old Trafford and a couple of Shane Watson jokes.  Chester-le-Street showed that there's a psychological fragility about the side to complement the more obvious technical flaws that blighted the first two defeats in this series. At none for 100 (I'm Australian; let it go, sweethearts), with 200 to get and 10 wickets in hand, Australia were very much in a winning position. At 2 for 168, the target was still eminently gettable. That's why this was both the most encouraging of defeats, and the most discouraging: encouraging because Australia worked hard to put themselves in clear sight of victory, discouraging because, well, we lost. Meanwhile, as Australia find new ways to get themselves out of winning positions, England keep conjuring new ways to win despite chronically underperforming. In the short space of four Tests, Australia have gone through an evolution it took their opponents 10 years to travel: from clueless whipping boys (early 90s England) to sporadically competitive whipping boys (early 2000s England). Does that count as progress? I guess not. The implication of our present velocity is that we'll have arrived at a figurative 2005 by the time the teams become reacquainted in Australia later this year. But the run-up to the return series, even though it has not even started yet, already promises to have a Nasser Hussain-era cadence to it, with reedy, schoolboy protestations of manifest improvement and bullish intent on the part of Australia giving way to the inevitable first-morning batting collapse and long, frustrating days in the field fetching balls for Alastair Cook double hundreds.  But let's not get too angry here. The swings of fortune over the course of the final day of this magnificent Test were a wonder to experience. At tea, the talk was all about Australia pulling off a heroic run chase, Dave Warner and Chris Rogers cementing their little-man Langer-Hayden impersonation act at the top of the order, and England's bowlers wasting the platform handed to them by their lower order's beefy hitting earlier in the day with a succession of deliveries that were either too short, too defensive, too tame, or all three at once. Warner in particular was resplendent, peeling off a whole Australian theme bar's worth of back-foot punches and jabs and skipping down the wicket to Graeme Swann with Haydenesque muscularity.  Then Stuart Broad, remembering suddenly that he was an elite pace bowler and not, as his step haircut would suggest, the balding sixth off-stage member of One Direction, marched to the top of his mark after tea and released a blast of deliveries that popped and hissed like a pig on a spit – a spell for the ages to set next to his Ashes-winning effort at The Oval in 2009. Australia, delivered from comfort to terror in the space of half an hour, stood no chance from the moment Warner fell to Tim Bresnan. That delivery, so angry and precise and limpid in its movement off the pitch, more than the ball that took out Clarke's off-stump, was the ball that signalled the end. Rogers had previously spent a good two minutes while in the middle calling for a spectator in a white shirt to move so that he could have better visibility of the incoming bowler. Rogers, to be fair, has been one of Australia's standout performers of the series, a stout bread course at the beginning of a batting meal that has most commonly disintegrated into a trail of crumbs. But that approach typifies, in admittedly miniature and not directly related form, much that's wrong with Australian cricket; there's been too much fiddling around with the sight screens, too much outrage over umpiring, and altogether too much tweeting, and too little focus on getting the big things – playing to reverse swing, negotiating DRS, Shane Watson – right. It's like the team has spent the northern summer rearranging its collective hector protector, before getting knocked out with a punch to the face.  Up on the Australian balcony, with Michael Clarke yet to fall to Broad's jewel of a cutter, the cameras offered a vision of the carnage to come: Watson alone in the dressing room, pads on, face whiter than his shirt, bouncing on the spot like a doomed Menshevik. The scene reminded me of Mark Philippoussis's nervous agitation as he stood next to Roger Federer before they both walked on to centre court for the 2003 Wimbledon final. This wasn't the limb-loosening of a composed athlete preparing to play his natural game; this was the crazed jig of a man preparing to die. The Canadian author Malcolm Gladwell famously argued that it's possible to achieve mastery in any task if you practise it for 10,000 hours. Many dispute the claim. Watson has probably spent about 10,000 hours over the course of his career advancing down the wicket and getting out to the ball that jags back in; and he is unquestionably now very good at it. Perhaps there's more truth to Gladwell's theory than the critics think. Between all the different Australian batting careers on which this Tour has demanded the sun should now set, there's hardly enough sun to go round. At Durham, Usman Khawaja was unrecognisable from the fat-bladed matador (sometimes it can be difficult to know whether you're writing cricket or porn) who had provided such calm top-order assurance at Lord's, slinking towards the middle in both innings with his bundle pre-dropped. Despite all the promise of the half-century at Lord's, he remains a pull shot in search of a full repertoire of strokes.  As for Smith, despite the breakdown of timing displayed against Broad while his side were mid-collapse, the patient may not be so stricken. Greg Blewett, speaking on Sky after the match had ended, was doing his best to stay upbeat, arguing: "He's a long-term player for Australia." Watson has been a long-term player for Australia for almost a decade now. Let's hope that Smith's own long-term journey follows a path of improvement, rather than entrenched mediocrity. No one, of course, offers up a better case for ritual selection execution than Watson. From claims he is a "cancer" in the dressing room to his persistent underperformance with the bat, this tour has been a shrieking, knives-out disaster for Watto. Surely, now, this is the moment where the summer of Watto will be taken into the stables, given a quick injection and told to sleep, go to sleep now, sweet Watto, go to sleep. That said, who is there to replace him? There's Phil Hughes, a proven failure at virtually every point of the batting schedule. Or there's Ed Cowan, master of the gritty, run-every-10-balls knock that finishes in the mid-20s, a strokeplayer so torpid he's more like a specialist nightwatchman than a genuine top order batsman. Further on towards the periphery, we have Glenn Maxwell, who was handed a baggy green in India and responded with innings of 13, eight, 10 and eight, and Moises Henriques, who did something similar, but in slightly less memorable fashion.  It's astonishing to think that a year ago, there was talk of Australia knocking South Africa off their perch at the top of the Test rankings. Even six months ago, Australia, having run the Proteas dangerously close and dispatched the Sri Lankans with contemptuous ease, landed in India with confidence. The team had the strut of a prog rock group; now, this Australian XI are more like a bad cruise ship covers band.  No matter how well we play, we just keep on losing. Our top order collapses and we lose; our middle order collapses and we lose; we bowl well and we lose; we bat well and we lose; we lose and then lose again. We dominate whole days then come undone through single hours. The furniture changes but the music doesn't. Perhaps Australia's luck will break eventually; but to place faith in luck says everything about the magnitude of the problem. The Argus Review was all about plotting a march back to the top of the sport. Today we find ourselves wussy funking our way down the world rankings, towards Pakistan and beyond, where the sun never shines and the ball doesn't swing. Turn the music up, kids; there's nothing to do now but dance. 