Andrew Sparrow and 
Claire Phipps 
18:10
 We can all spend an awfully long time going over lots of stuff that I’ve written in the last 30 years - all of which, in my view, have been taken out of context, but never mind. There are some serious issues before us today .... I’m afraid that there is such a rich thesaurus now of things that I have said that have been, one way or another, through what alchemy I do not know, somehow misconstrued that it would really take me too long to engage in a full-blown itinerary or apology to all concerned. And I think most people who read these things, in their proper context, can see exactly what was intended.  The prime minister has said is that we must bring migration down to sustainable levels so that’s what is going to be my aim at the moment. Pressed on whether the net migration target had changed, Rudd said:  I’m going to stick to my comment which is about bringing it down to sustainable levels. That has to be the most important thing for the country. Immigration was a key factor in the Brexit campaign as net levels exceeded 330,000 last year.  That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. 
17:44
 Asked if she had done a deal with Owen Smith about taking a job, Angela Eagle replied: I’m supporting Owen. We are going to be in lockstep together arguing for an effective, united Labour party doing its job as Her Majesty’s Opposition in opposing this government. She also said that the gap between her and Smith in terms of nominations was “quite narrow” but that she did not think it was in Labour’s interests for the contest between Eagle and Smith to continue. 
17:41
 This is what Angela Eagle told the BBC about her decision to quit. I want to thank my own supporters for the faith that they showed in me in this leadership election. We’ve finished the first day of nominations. Owen Smith has a lead, and I think that it’s in the best interests of the Labour party that we now come together so that we can have one candidate. So I’m announcing tonight that I’m withdrawing from this race and supporting Owen. I would like to congratulate Owen on coming top in this race and then going on to take on Jeremy Corbyn. We have the Labour party at the moment that is not working. We’ve got a leader that does not have the confidence of his members of parliament and isn’t reaching out to the country. We need to have a strong and united Labour party so that we can be a good opposition, take the fight to the Conservative government and heal our country. So I am announcing tonight that I will be supporting Owen in that endeavour with all of my enthusiasm and might.  And I would also like to say to the people outside watching this, if you are a supporter of the Labour party, if you want the Labour party to be an effective opposition who can take on the Tories and win, please go to the Labour party website, sign up as a registered supporter and join this fight. You have until 5 o’clock tomorrow. 
17:31
 These are from ITV’s Robert Peston. .@angelaeagle thanks supporters. Says @OwenSmith_MP has lead so she is withdrawing and supporting him .@angelaeagle "I am supporting Owen with all of my enthusiasm and might" .@angelaeagle says quite a narrow gap with @OwenSmith_MP 
17:29
 This is from the BBC’s Jack Evans. .@angelaeagle "I congratulate Owen and look forward to seeing him taking on Jeremy Corbyn" 
17:22
 Angela Eagle is pulling out of the Labour leadership contest, Robert Peston reports. .@angelaeagle pulls out of Labour leadership race 
17:17
 This is from ITV’s Robert Peston. I am with @angelaeagle in central lobby as she prepares to make statement on Labour leadership race 
17:16
 This is from my colleague Anusthka Asthana. Angela Eagle to make statement - so looks like she will pull out. I understand she attracted nominations of 63 MPs, and 7 MEPs, Smith 90. 
17:13
 This is from the BBC’s Iain Watson. looks like Angela Eagle about to announce she is conceding 
17:13
 Angela Eagle is set to make a statement, Huffington Post’s Paul Waugh reports. Angela Eagle set to make statement any minute... There are suspicions that she will announce she is pulling out from the Labour leadership, allowing Owen Smith to take on Jeremy Corbyn, because Smith has more support amongst MPs. (See 5.04pm.) 
17:04
 The Labour party has not yet published the figures for how many MPs are nominating Angela Eagle and Owen Smith, but my colleague Anushka Asthana has a steer. Still waiting but if right Smith gets 90 nominations, of which 88 MPs, Eagle gets 72, of which 9 are MEPs... So pressure on Eagle. 
16:55
 Here are two tweets on Boris Johnson’s performance. From Bloomberg’s Robert Hutton All the US questions to Boris Johnson are basically: You're a liar, how can we trust you?His answer: It was all a long time ago. Except it wasn’t a long time ago, Adam Bienkov from politics.co.uk points out. Boris Johnson under fire for past comments, repeatedly claims they “go back 30 years”. Comments about Obama go back less than 3 months. 
16:51
 Here are some pictures for the expression on John Kerry’s face when Boris Johnson was asked by an American journalist why Kerry should believe him given his record of telling lies. (See 4.34pm.) John Kerry reacted to a journalist accusing Boris Johnson of telling "outright lies" 4 different ways in 1 second. pic.twitter.com/u8FMNcfVYd 
16:38
 Turning back to the Labour leadership contest, my colleague Anushka Asthana has an update. Hearing that Owen Smith is 25 MPs ahead. But Eagle is 7 MEPs ahead... Total difference 18... 
16:34
 Q: [To Johnson] You have a history of misrepresentations and lies. Why should Kerry believe what you say? Johnson says people are “more than welcome” to rake over what he has written over many years, but he wants to get on with the problems facing the world today. Most people paying their taxes would want that, he says. Q: Is there any chance of prioritising the UK over countries already in the queue for a trade deal? Kerry says that would be impossible. Until the UK leaves the EU, it is still part of the EU. He says he is working to make progress on TTIP. TTIP is even more important for Europe now than it was, he says. He says he wants to demythologise it. Regulations do not go downwards, he says. It won’t stop countries having strict standards, he says. He says there has not been enough pro-advocacy of its benefits. He accepts that people may have voted for Brexit because they felt they were not getting the benefits of globalisation. He says TTIP will help to ensure that people do benefit from globalisation. He says in Europe people’s incomes and chances have been significantly improved by globalisation. Johnson says he passionately agrees with this. People on low wages have not felt the benefits of globalisation. The answer to that is to invest in skills and to increase people’s productivity. We have to be more outward looking, more free-trading, he says. The press conference is over. I will post a summary soon. 
16:26
 Q: Is the UK still going to be at the back of the queue for a trade deal? Kerry says that the US trade representative has said that the US will talk about a trade deal with the US. Johnson says it is impossible to enter into a trade deal while the UK is still in the EU. Q: Amber Rudd has refused to commit the government to getting net migration below 100,000. Johnson says Rudd is right not to commit to numbers, because you do not want to disappoint people.  But when the UK leaves the EU, it will be able able to exert controls. And, as for the heat (mentioned by the questioner), we have some spare water cannon, he says. 
16:23
 Q: [To Johnson] You said President Obama disliked the UK because he was part-Kenyan. And you have likened Hillary Clinton to a sadistic nurse, and to Lady Macbeth. Do you take these comments back? Johnson says he would like to repeat what he said earlier. There is a rich thesaurus of things he has said that have been misconstrued that it would take too long to apologise for them. And people who read them in their context will see that he was misunderstood. He says the current problems are more important than any obiter dicta from the past. Q: [To Kerry] Given what Johnson said during the EU referendum campaign, is he what the UK and the US needs? Kerry says the subjects he is working on with Johnson have nothing to do with the EU referendum. He is confident that they will be able to work together. On the referendum, he says the people have voted. We all respect democracy. He and President Obama wanted a different vote. But they respect the result. He says he is “absolutely confident” that he can work with Johnson. 