It’s a situation any parent will recognise. During a walk, little one suddenly stops, sits down, decides he’s not going to continue. You wait a few steps ahead, offering encouragement, then a threat: you’re not going to come back for him – is he going to stay there on his own, all night? And then, after a short standoff, you give up, and go back for him, because he’s your kid. Not a walk in the park here, though, but Wild West (BBC2, Sunday), specifically the Great Basin desert of Nevada, in the US. And not people, but horses: wild ones, mustangs. If this four-week-old foal doesn’t get up and continue in the search for water, he’s going to die. “Knowing where to look takes great wisdom and experience,” says James Norton, narrating. Really? Wisdom? From a horse? And, yes, our James Norton (nice Sidney Chambers in Grantchester and nasty Tommy Lee Royce in Happy Valley), but here just Norton’s voice – English and friendly, and utterly incongruous with the landscape. I mean, would you want Vin Diesel doing the voiceover for a three-part natural history series about the Lake District? You would? Then shut up. The scenery is the star here – Great Basin, Mesa Verde, Monument Valley, the Grand Canyon, Death Valley – big and badass, wild and western, truly gritty, unmistakably American. Though, in places, sculpted for millions of years by wind and water, it could just as well be Mars. As for the wildlife? Well, says gentle James, these horses are the creatures that most define this world. Really? Even though they weren’t here when it was made and are relatively recent arrivals, brought by Europeans (#GoHomeHorses #VoteTrump)? Also, from the point of view of the wildlife-porn watcher on the sofa, they might be wild, and called mustangs, but they’re still just horses. What else you got? Well, a gila monster – sounds impressive, but really it’s just a big lizard that eats quails’ eggs. Because, underneath the scales and the scary name, it’s posh. A horned lizard – something like a cross between a Triceratops and the Statue of Liberty – is more fun, tongue-sticking ants, then catapulting them to the back of its throat where they’re covered with mucus. Mmm. More ants, underground, living reservoirs, Orwellian prisoners. Then birds and bees, literal and figurative all in one: the bees form an orgy ball, a big, buzzy frenzy of sex, and the birds pick them off one by one. Meanwhile, a pair of tortoises cop off, eventually. And here’s a dog chasing a coot on a golf course. A wild dog, granted – a coyote – but it hardly compares with last year’s The Hunt, does it? To be honest, there’s not an awful lot of natural history around here; it’s too harsh. So here’s some human history to fill the void – the gold rush, the Hopi Native American nation. “The Hopi have learned how to live in the desert because of wisdom handed down through generations,” says Norton. Proper wisdom, that one – plus, the Hopi go back further and are more interesting than the horses. Sir Chris Hoy: 200mph at Le Mans (BBC2, Sunday) is interesting, particularly structurally. We kick off in June of this year, with the great cyclist about to step into a motor car and start the Le Mans 24-hour race. Then it yo-yos back in time, a month, a couple of years, six months, to find out how this came about. By the second half of the documentary, the race is actually going on, and we’re still dipping into the past to fill the gaps. It’s very effective. I’m not a massive motorsport fan. If this had been done linearly, I would have been less inclined to last the distance, since the second part would have been one long car race. As it is, the race is interwoven with the story, expertly and teasingly, so that they complement each other – a triumph of editing. By the end, I was chewing my knuckles with anticipation and nervousness. The backstory is a good one, with ups and downs, a car that falls through, a new one, a comedy boss with a potty mouth and a short fuse, worries about safety from Lady Hoy and from Chris. He speaks well, too, about the void that comes after stopping something as intense and all-consuming as Olympic sport, and the need to fill it with something else. It’s interesting to see him transfer that intensity, focus and attention to detail – not just from two wheels to four, but also to making coffee. Hey, if the motor racing doesn’t work out, Chris, I’m sure there’s a job for you at Caffè Nero. 