 Unlike past Resident Evils, Revelations 2 is being released as a series of weekly downloadable episodes, with the whole game available to buy on a disc on 20 March. Episode 1 features two stories, both set on the same fortress-like prison island. One is about Barry Burton’s search for his daughter, the other involves Claire Redfield trying to make good her escape. Ironically, Claire has Barry’s daughter helping her (shame she didn’t bring her mobile or she could have saved Barry a lot of bother), while Barry is assisted by a little girl who’s unarmed but can sense nearby zombies. You can play alone by swapping between characters or in split-screen co-op mode, which has the added bonus of giving you someone to chat to while you’re stalked by increasingly twisted and angry mutants in the hair-raising half-darkness. Unnerving, fun and often panic-inducing, this is a promising opener for the Resident Evil Revelations 2 series.  ALSO OUT THIS WEEK Seventies coin-op classic Asteroids involved chipping away at slowly drifting rocks while trying to avoid crashing into the resulting fragments. In 2007, Super Stardust HD gave the process a sparkly 21st-century facelift. Instead of black-and-white vector-drawn space rocks on a flat background, you orbited little spherical planetoids while shooting up full-colour meteors. Super Stardust Ultra doesn’t mess with that formula, settling for a small extra layer of graphical glamour, but otherwise leaving its hectic multi-directional shooting thrills untouched. It works nicely, although the similar Geometry Wars 3: Dimensions offers more in the name of innovation, adding differently shaped planetoids and a more diverse roster of enemies. Still, this is remarkably playable, and demands total concentration to survive its frenzied dances with death. Sony, £9.99  Alto, along with the other tiny snowboarders you unlock over the course of your adventure, slides down silhouetted snow slopes, performing leisurely backflips against the setting sun. Day eventually gives way to night followed by dawn, the minimalist landscapes lit with beautiful, slowly changing colours. On your way down, you’ll be catching runaway llamas, collecting glowing coins and pulling off stunts. You’ll also disturb so-called elders, whose campfire reveries are interrupted by you jumping over them on a snowboard, leading them to give chase on horseback, your only escape to hop over one of the game’s many bottomless chasms. Slipping quietly down its slopes, jumping rocks, catching llamas and grinding buildings puts you straight in “the zone”, with simple, harmonious music keeping you under this game’s hypnotic spell. Snowman, £1.49 