 Smartphones, tablets, desktop computers – ubiquitous gadgets for the digital age, they astonish us with their near omniscience and delight us with their myriad apps. But, according to David S Abraham, there’s another reason we should be impressed with our devices – they are a veritable compendium of chemicals. “The iPhone itself has half the elements known to man in it,” he explains down the line. “They each have the little functions that they do and without one of them the product won’t work in the way that we expect it to.” Abraham should know. A natural resource strategist, he has trekked around the world, from a vast niobium mine in Brazil to an antiquated processing plant in Estonia, investigating how a bunch of exotic-sounding elements have transformed our lives. The upshot is The Elements of Power, a book that explores an epoch Abraham believes to be as profound as those born of stone, iron and bronze: the “rare metal age”. The name is somewhat misleading. For these elements – a mob that includes indium, lithium and “rare earths” like dysprosium – are not necessarily thin on the ground, although some, such as tellurium, are. “Rare”, Abraham says, comes from the quantities in which they are used: just a dash can transform a material. “Terbium produces more vibrant light in television; dysprosium and neodymium make incredibly strong magnets possible; antinomy helps resists fire,” he writes. Yet, as The Elements of Power reveals, it is a combination of shaky supply chains and shady practices that fuels our hi-tech world. Diplomacy and deals are paramount as deposits and production capabilities vary from country to country – around 85% of the world’s supply of rare earths is provided by China. It’s a situation that makes Abraham uneasy. After all, to be in the vanguard of technological development, countries need access to rare metals. “ “I’m worried about countries and companies using near monopolistic control to keep prices high or restrict supply of these resources. They already have: China cutting exports is a greater example, but more importantly it showed the supply for rare earths, in this case, is unstable,” he says. Indeed, as the book reveals, such geopolitics are real: China has encouraged foreign companies to set up manufacturing bases there, while in 2010 it halted rare earth exports to Japan in response to a territory dispute. Increasing supply isn’t easy: mines are troublesome, expensive and time-consuming to develop, while a paucity of metallurgists in the west, Abraham says, is cause for concern. Meanwhile our consumption of rare metals is increasing, featuring in everything from bridges to weapons, electric cars to wind turbines. But while their mining, production and even recycling can take a heavy toll, particularly in China. “When we import Kindles, we export pollution, including waste water, carbon dioxide emissions and acid mine drainage,” Abraham writes. Ultimately, The Elements of Power invites readers to reflect on the ramifications of our gadget-filled lives. “Our collective decisions have an impact on places that we haven’t really even thought about. But more importantly, it takes a lot of resources to make the lives we choose,” says Abraham. The Elements of Power: Gadgets, Guns, and the Struggle for a Sustainable Future in the Rare Metal Age by David S Abraham is published by Yale University Press, £20 