Today we had Will Macpherson at the Ageas Bowl as Hampshire fought back against Surrey, as well as all the action from around the grounds 
 Will Macpherson Thanks ever so much for your company today. Great fightback from Hampshire, who have an excellent chance of saving this game now. Here’s your scores on the doors: Thanks for all your comments and speak in the morning! Updated
 Will Macpherson Such an impressive rearguard from McManus and, subsequently, Wheal here. They have all but stopped scoring runs, but how they’ve frustrated Surrey. McManus has been out there for four hours now. Still well over 200 behind, but what an effort. 
 Will Macpherson What a class act this man is. Ross Taylor leading the resistance as he brings up his century! Sussex are 307/7 #GOSBTS pic.twitter.com/vOTPuTLUnZ 
 Yeah, about Ben Duckett  Duckett seals the win in the grand manner, sweeping his 4th 6 to end unbeaten on 163 from 104 balls. Lions win by 7 wkts in 37th over. 
 Will Macpherson Cracking little hundred for McManus who looked so shaky at the start but settled and has worked hard. Gets there with a nudge to fine leg off Meaker and the score is 377 for nine. Very frustrating for Surrey ... even if the deficit is still 260. 
 Will Macpherson James Taylor is sweaty. Anyone got a spare pair of swimming trucks on the train from London to Notts please😁🙏 Should be a compulsory kit off train😆#moist #NoAircon😅 
 Will Macpherson McManus now has 93, and has played really well. Hampshire are still 271 behind ... but they have done pretty well today. 
 Another one for Glamorgan WICKET | Broom gone cheaply, LBW to Hogan for 3. Thakor the new man in. Derbyshire 322/5 #GLAvDER pic.twitter.com/MS3hmsh8EP 
 Will Macpherson Nottinghamshire need to be careful at Trent Bridge. They are two down and still behind Somerset. Overton got Mullaney lbw, then Allenby bowled Lumb. 21 for two. 
 Will Macpherson Four batting points for Hampshire! They’ve done very well to get there. McManus is 78 and playing really well. Sibley being milked. 
 Will Macpherson Durham win! Rushworth drives Jarvis for four and Durham win by two wickets! Magnificent game of cricket. Congrats to all involved.  
 Will Macpherson Ben Duckett continues to be brilliant. Duckett now ramping the Pakistani seamers. He's on 123 from 82 with 20 fours and two sixes. 
 Will Macpherson Oh blooming heck and now he’s been run out for 36. Surely there isn’t another twist in the tail? 
 Will Macpherson Your boy Benny Stokes here with a job to do. Six! Stokes takes on Kerrigan with a slog sweep and lofts it over mid-wicket for a maximum! 237/7, 10 runs required #LANvDUR 
 Will Macpherson Some highlights for ya visual pleasure here. HIGHLIGHTS - Day Two highlights from the @CountyChamp between Sussex and Kent #GOSBTS https://t.co/OiY9tVjlT8 
 Will Macpherson Little team meeting for Surrey at the fall of the ninth wicket; you’d think they are discussing whether to enforce or not. 
 Will Adamsdale That helps. Six! Great shot by Hickey who pulls @KyleJarv89 over mid wicket to the pavilion. 229-7, 18 needed #LANvDUR 
 Will Macpherson Crane has been bowled by Batty and Hampshire at 327 for nine - a third bowling point for Surrey there. Brad Wheal the last man in. 
 Will Macpherson News on Zafar Ansari .... Zafar Ansari has been for a scan on his back and waiting for results of the scan 
 Will Macpherson Hampshire are half way to Surrey’s total. They get to halfway as McManus smacks Batty to the short boundary at cow for six of the best. Well, six. 
 Will Macpherson Mmmmmmm the future  Duckett reached century on Lions debut from 65 balls, and celebrated with another reverse swept 6. Some lovely shots from Clarke too. 165-2 
 Will Macpherson Wicket! Sam Curran! A wicket! Gareth Andrew caught at second slip the ball after picking up four through third slip. The youngster has thoroughly deserved his wicket, it has to be said. 
 Will Macpherson Stop. Duckett time. Ben Duckett scores a 65-ball 100 for England Lions v Pakistan A at Cheltenham out of a total of 149-2 
 Will Macpherson Trescothick goes! Oh no! Tahir gets his man, and his seventh wicket. Somerset all out for 437, a lead of 36. Could there be a game on yet? Updated