McDonald’s mascot, Ronald McDonald, is keeping a low profile in the US amid a spate of creepy clown sightings around the world. McDonald’s in New York told the Associated Press the company was being “thoughtful in respect to Ronald McDonald’s participation in community events” as a result of the “current climate around clown sightings in communities”. AP said the company did not give any other details about how often its red-haired and -mouthed mascot will make appearances or how that will change. We live in a country where the Hamburgler can freely walk down the street, but Ronald McDonald can't. https://t.co/ntrIEZbZu0 It suggests that the company may be seeking to capitalise on a craze that has captured the attention of the internet – and with it, the news media around the world, much to the chagrin of professional clowns. In August, people dressed as clowns were reportedly attempting to lure children into woods in the US state of South Carolina. The prank has since spread around the world, with police responding to several reports. McDonald’s might be trying to steer clear of creepy clowns but, in the Australian town of Moe, Victoria, the creepy clown came to McDonald’s. Numerous sightings were reported of a male clown wielding an axe at cars exiting the drive-through of the fast-food restaurant on the Princes Freeway about 3.30am on Sunday. Victoria police confirmed on Tuesday that a 23-year-old man from Eagle Point had been arrested, and was expected to be charged on summons with assault, weapons, public order and “disguise-related” offences. Though no one was injured in the incident, nor property damaged, Victoria police took the opportunity to caution people against taking part in “what is being called the ‘clown purge’.” “We understand that some people are getting involved for a bit of fun, however this arrest is a timely reminder that this behaviour is not amusing, and in many cases, it is criminal behaviour.” The penalty for possessing an article of disguise is up to two years’ imprisonment. Counter to McDonald’s statement in the US, a spokeswoman in Australia said it was “business as usual” for Ronald here, though she stressed that his appearances were pre-arranged and in the daytime. Organisers of a Halloween event for children in Moe have banned clown costumes for adults and teenagers, “in light of recent clown events”. Kevin Reardon, the manager of the Old Gippstown Heritage Park that will host the Halloween Spooktacular event on 28 October, told Australian Associated Press the warning was necessary to ensure a fun night for all attendees. “If we have a scary clown here, is he a benign clown or is he one of the idiots that’s going to cause trouble?” he asked on Wednesday. “To be on the safe side, we’ve said dress as something else.” There have been some false alarms. St Columba’s College in Essendon was forced into lockdown on Tuesday morning amid rumours of people dressed as clowns and holding fake knives. But a Victoria police spokeswoman told the Moonee Valley Leader that the scare was not clown-related.  A mask had been found hanging over the passenger seat of an unoccupied car “and removed” but it was understood to be a Guy Fawkes or Anonymous mask. According to the Leader: “The school’s communications coordinator Annelies Brandjes said there were definitely no clowns.” Sightings across Australia have been documented on the Clown Sightings Australia Facebook page, which has attracted close to 26,500 followers in the five days since it was set up on 7 October. Guardian Australia has tried to contact the administrator of the page. A post on Wednesday morning said that reports would only be publicised if they were corroborated by multiple accounts. It concluded: “Thank You & stay safe.” 