 If you hear a gulp when Alex Bogdanovic walks out on to Wimbledon's No1 Court tomorrow to take on Jürgen Melzer in the opening rubber of Great Britain's Davis Cup tie against Austria, do not be alarmed. Bogdanovic's record both in team competition and at Wimbledon is so poor that he may need to take in oxygen by the lungful to settle his nerves. This weekend's World Group play-off will be Bogdanovic's fifth Davis Cup tie and though he won a dead rubber in his first outing against Australia in Sydney in 2003 — against the doubles specialist Todd Woodbridge — he has consistently failed to deliver anything other than disappointment.  His record at Wimbledon is even less inspiring. He has lost seven consecutive first-round matches at the championships and taken only three sets, including one against Simone Bolelli at this year's tournament. Only one player in the modern era has a worse record at the All England Club, Chile's Patricio Cornejo, and at least he was ranked high enough to get into the main draw as of right and not courtesy of the wildcards Bogdanovic has been given year upon year. The 24-year-old, though, certainly has talent when it comes to striking the ball. He is Britain's next best male player after Andy Murray and the Davis Cup captain, John Lloyd, is a man blessed with enough patience and optimism to believe that the British No2 will one day — preferably tomorrow — learn to cope with the pressure that comes with playing both for the national team and at British tennis's spiritual home. Victory against Melzer, Austria's trump card, would leave the path clear for Andy Murray to help the team to a two-love lead with an expected victory over Austrian second string Alexander Peya. "Alex can open up his shoulders, no one expects him to win and if he plays like he has been in practice then Mr Melzer is going to have a very tough match," said Lloyd. "We don't know how Melzer is going to play out there. His Davis Cup record is not particularly good. He keeps talking about Andy but if he loses against Alex then that tie is over. Melzer's got pressure. He expects that match to be a lock for him but his record is not good in Davis Cup. If Alex can play the way he can play and the crowd revs him up then Melzer is not going to find it that easy." Bogdanovic has had no shortage of help or advice since emerging as a promising junior. The Lawn Tennis Association has set some of the most respected coaches in the world game the task of getting Bogdanovic's obvious talent to shine. Peter Lundgren worked with Marcelo Rios, Marat Safin and Roger Federer with great success but could do little with Bogdanovic, while the spell the player spent with Brad Gilbert earlier this year saw him slide backwards. Lloyd's Davis Cup coach Paul Annacone — a former mentor to Pete Sampras and Tim Henman — is the latest of the LTA's expensive imports to try and solve the Bogdanovic riddle. He has persuaded Lloyd there is still hope.  "All we want is a performance where he goes out there, he is ready to play and just tries his arse off," said Lloyd. "Then you'll have no worries from me — win, lose or draw. That's all you can ask for. It's all about the frame of mind and I have enough confidence in myself and Paul to get him in the right frame of mind that he will open up his shoulders and swing from the hip." Meanwhile Murray's brother Jamie, who will be playing in the doubles with Ross Hutchins, has confirmed that he and his doubles partner Max Mirnyi have split after more than nine months together. "We're looking for other partners," said Murray. "It's a shame because we worked hard to try to make it work. It just didn't quite click." Murray and the 31-year-old Belarussian, who is a former No1 in doubles and a multiple grand slam champion in the discipline, began playing together in January. They bonded well off the court but failed to deliver results on a consistent basis after winning their first title together in February this year. Murray will play with a variety of partners for the rest of this season while seeking out a long-term replacement for Mirnyi. Friday (11am) A Bogdanovic v J Melzer; A Murray v A Peya. Saturday (1pm) R Hutchins & J Murray v J Knowle & Melzer. Sunday (11am) A Murray v Melzer; Bogdanovic v Peya 