Sukhdev Sandhu 
 "I think that what a person normally goes to cinema for is time," claimed the film director Andrei Tarkovsky. He felt this so deeply he entitled his 1987 memoir Sculpting In Time. According to Geoff Dyer, author of the recently published Zona, a meditation on the Russian director's best-known work Stalker (1979), it's a statement that needs tweaking: "What people go to the cinema for is a good time, not to sit there waiting for something to happen." Time is the subject – the essence, as it were – of one of the most imaginative festivals to be staged in the UK for many years. AV Festival 12, taking place throughout March in venues across Newcastle, Gateshead, Sunderland and Middlesborough, is the anti-Olympics. Its subtitle – "As Slow As Possible" – is an ironic alternative to the London mega-event's motto of "Faster, Higher, Stronger". One of its crucial components is a "Slow Cinema" weekend dedicated to some of the world's most fiercely independent film-makers including Bela Tarr, whose famously glacial seven-hour Satantango (1994) led Susan Sontag to enthuse: "I'd be glad to see it every year for the rest of my life," and Lav Diaz, the Filipino director whose ragged, uncompromising portraits of political corruption in his nation have been known to hit the 11-hour mark. "Slow Cinema" is a controversial term. Jonathan Romney, writing in Sight and Sound, has characterised it as a "varied strain of austere minimalist cinema". Others, less delicately, have damned it for its use of ultra-long takes, slender or non-existent narrative, and what they regard as its indifference or even hostility to audiences. They argue that slow cinema is not only precious and deeply boring, but based on a fundamental misunderstanding of what drives cinema. Certainly, for much of its early history, the movies appeared to be an engine to speed up the collective social pulse. As much as cars, telegraphs, telephones, photography, or department stores, they represented a technology of change. Cinema didn't merely chronicle the transformations of early 20th-century urban consciousness; like jazz, it embodied them. Its techniques of dissolves, cutting and montage mirrored the rhythms – at once alienating and exhilarating – of modern life. By the 60s, however, the manufacture of speed no longer seemed quite the radical project it once did. An affluent America was flooded by fastness – cars, food, jukeboxes, multi-channel TV – and speed, rather than being thought of as a way to jolt a flaccid society into a boldly futurist direction, was more and more regarded as a mechanism to cretinise society, to deform citizens into consumers. Film-makers from Antonioni (about whose L'Avventura Dyer claims "every second lasted a minute, every minute lasted an hour") to Andy Warhol (whose 485-minute Empire depicted nothing but slow-motion footage of New York's Empire State Building) increasingly saw slowness as a zone of avant-garde possibility. Today, in the age of the fibre-optic cable, the velocity of the moving image – like that of all data – is even quicker. YouTube kittens, TMZ titillation, mobile phone footage of racist outbursts on tube trains: not only do we upload pixellated pictures as never before, we guzzle them up, click-trancing the hours away in search of new thrills and memes and "rofl" fare. Meanwhile, the average length of shot in films such as Batman Begins (2005) and The Bourne Ultimatum (2007) is less than two seconds. To watch many multiplex movies, especially if you're no longer a teenager, is like being a lab rat into whose eyes are squirted noxious liquids, or a captive at a black-ops centre whose military personnel jab and jolt you in steady waves of sensory torture. In this context, the cinema that Romney describes in terms of austerity can also be seen as a form of cultural resistance. What links otherwise distinct films such as Jia Zhang-ke's Still Life (2006), Carlos Reygadas's Silent Light (2007), and Apichatpong Weerasethakul's Palme D'Or-winning Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives (2010) is the extent to which they opt for ambient noises or field recordings rather than bombastic sound design, embrace subdued visual schemes that require the viewer's eye to do more work, and evoke a sense of mystery that springs from the landscapes and local customs they depict more than it does from generic convention. Is it a coincidence that these filmmakers all hail from outside the west? They may be atheists or have studied in American film schools, but their work is often infused with a respect for religious and spiritual notions of time. Diaz, whose extraordinary films are being given a rare screening at the AV Festival, often speaks about growing up in a rural part of the Philippines, where having to walk many kilometers to get to school each day instilled in him an organic instinct for slow aesthetics. In recent years many Europeans and Americans have learned what the citizens of the global south have known for a long time: the technology-and-testosterone-driven culture of western money markets is incredibly destructive. It's equally striking how much of the slow cinema at AV is concerned with the nature and practice of manual labour. Sharon Lockheart's Double Tide (2010) is a gorgeous if dramatically uneventful document of a woman clam-digger in the mudflats of coastal Maine that can't help but evoke the ghosts of the Chinese cocklepickers who were drowned in Morecambe Bay in 2004. In Milwaukee/Duisburg James Benning revisits a 14-second shot of a working-class man leaving a Milwaukee factory in his film Time and A Half (1972) and slows it down 133 times so that it lasts 31 minutes and becomes a kind of exit waltz for American industry. Films such as these use duration to honour the immiserated, offer forensic X-rays of manual labour rendered invisible by the fetishisation of the digital economy, shine a spotlight on the beauty and wisdom of men and women whose graft can't merely be reduced to narratives of exploitation. That the AV Festival is taking place in northeast England draws attention to the region's often-forgotten tradition of being hospitable to avant-garde art – in 1965 Basil Bunting gave his first reading of Briggflatts at one of its venues, Morden Tower, an ancient turret-room in Newcastle city's walls. It also has a political piquancy: the north east has often been urged, by starchitects and politicians, to mimic the mores of cities in the south. But by focusing on artists who have ploughed lonely furrows for many decades, ignoring hype machines and the in-built obsolescence of fashionability, festival director Rebecca Shatwell delivers an implicit critique of New Labour's cultural regeneration schemes that Alex Niven, writing in Folk Opposition, has also derided for their "wafer-thin symbolism" and for promoting a spurious "champagne Geordie miracle". As those involved in the slow food movement have shown, slowness – in its distrust of cultural standardisation – is an inherently political concept. Yet, according to Katherine Waugh, co-director with Fergus Daly of The Art of Time (2010), a philosophical exploration of how time is experienced in modern society, "I resent the fact that now one has to be polarised into either being a hedonistic speed freak or a yoga practitioner. Surely it's possible to critique what is going on without being seen as being on a simplistic 'war-path' with the evils of capitalism. Maybe we are all sensualists and romantics rather than banner-carrying neophobes." Waugh's belief that slowness doesn't have to be about dourness is an important one. Anyone who's heard Nick Pittsinger's "Paulstretched" version of Justin Bieber's "U Smile", which turns an unexceptional pop song into an epic, or who has scrutinised recent photographs explaining the biomechanics of cats lapping water, will know that slowness can lead to laughter, revelations, delight. In fact, slowness, far from being an enemy of cinema, is an intrinsic element of contemporary visual culture; anyone who's ever stared at a screensaver, a fish tank, a gallery installation, surveillance footage, night-cam images of sleeping Big Brother contestants or buffering online video, will be at ease with the variable velocities of the moving image. The web, in spite of its ability to foment impatience, has also been a home to sites such as Matthew Flanagan's Landscape Suicide and Andrew Ray's Some Landscapes that have produced impressively thoughtful responses to slow cinema. The last word deserves to go to Chantal Akerman, the Belgian director of the feminist masterpiece Jeanne Dielman, 23 quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles (1975). Quoted in The Art of Time, she declares: "The way cinema was done was mostly to escape time. When people say, 'Oh, I had a good evening. I didn't see the time passing by.' Well – they were robbed of two hours of their life." A car crash that will last a month, a million-year dialogue, astronaut geese – this year's AV festival is devoted to slow art. Adrian Searle clocks on 