The new US drama This Is Us (Channel 4) kicked off with a long caption – white letters on a black screen. “This is a fact,” it read. “According to Wikipedia, the average human being shares his or her birthday with over 18 million other human beings. There is no evidence that sharing the same birthday creates any type of behavioural link between these people. If there is, Wikipedia hasn’t discovered it for us yet.” I found this irritating for a number of reasons. First, it isn’t really a fact: it’s just what you get when you divide the global population by 365. Second, some birth dates are considerably more popular than others. Third, I couldn’t find any reference to it on Wikipedia. Fourth, the caption’s weirdly tortuous wording serves mainly to ensure that “This”, “is” and “us” appear in the right order so they can swim together to form the programme’s title as the rest of the words fade to black. But, really, the biggest problem is that it does a remarkable disservice to what comes next. Yes, This Is Us is wilfully saccharine, enough to make your fillings sing in places, and yes, it employs the time-honoured trick of undercutting all that syrupy sweetness with loads of clever, dense, hard-boiled dialogue, so that everyone ends up speaking in paragraphs. But it pulls off that trick very well, and that’s not easy. The premise, initially, is deceptively simple: we are introduced to several characters who are all celebrating their 36th birthday. Overweight Kate has a fridge full of junk food covered in admonishing Post-it notes in her own hand. Jack is a father-to-be whose wife Rebecca is pregnant with triplets. Randall is a black broker with a corner office in an otherwise pretty white firm. Kevin is a buff actor who stars in a transparently terrible sitcom called The Manny, which requires him to be shirtless most of the time. As is the American way, each of these characters reaches his or her crossroads while possessed of enviable residential accommodation. And how much patience you have with the idea that turning 36 constitutes some kind of crisis probably depends on how old you are. But if you’re not prepared to overlook their relative youth or their real estate, then This Is Us was never going to be your cup of tea. Despite the dopey opening disclaimer, it’s clear that all these thirtysomethings will end up linked, behaviourally or otherwise. Early on, we learn that Kevin and Kate are brother and sister. Jack’s wife goes into labour prematurely, so his triplets look set to share his birthday. Randall has tracked down his biological father, for reasons he can’t explain to his wife or himself. This Is Us belongs to what has become a fully-fledged US TV genre: a jokey, fast-talking ensemble piece, ostensibly cynical, that contains at its core a reaffirmation of human nature so brashly sincere as to constitute a full-scale flight from reality. When it’s light, This Is Us is sharp and funny, and when it suddenly gets emotional it doesn’t so much pluck at your heartstrings as punch you in the aorta. Gilmore Girls can do the same thing, but This Is Us operates with the additional element of surprise – you don’t know where it’s taking you. Most of the time, you’re not even sure where you are. There’s a reason for this, but reviewers have been issued with a stern warning about spoiler alerts. Suffice to say This Is Us doesn’t just tie up its narrative loose ends – it makes them into a balloon animal. All this expert manipulation requires a top-notch cast – you need to be able to say a lot of hokey stuff with tremendous conviction – and everybody in This Is Us delivers, particularly Chrissy Metz as Kate and Chris Sullivan as Toby, the love interest she finds at a weight-loss support group. I’m hooked, and I barely know these people. In addition to the regular cast, Gerald McRaney made an extraordinarily powerful cameo appearance as an elderly doctor drafted in at the last minute to oversee Rebecca’s troubled triplet delivery. I can’t believe I’m never going to see him again. Lately, a lot of people have been saying that these dark times require just this sort of comfort television: a headlong escape into a warm, safe space; an emotional wringing out. I don’t necessarily disagree – I’d just like to warn you that, even by the standards of the genre, This Is Us is strong medicine. I wouldn’t recommend watching more than two episodes in a go, and I would advise against operating heavy machinery afterwards. 