A concert by the London Symphony Orchestra christens the newly refurbished venue on London’s South Bank Pomp and circumstance: Jonathan Glancey on the £111m refurbishment of the Royal Festival Hall Neville Cardus 
 Here we are again - at the Royal Festival Hall, open last night for music after many months of reconstruction and renewal. There is much to be done yet; the place is surrounded by rubble and vestiges of creation. I imagine that the creation of the world itself was rather like this on, say, the third day. But already the changes making for comfort and spaciousness are at once striking. The view across the river at night, from the Royal Festival Hall, is one of the noblest and most historical to be seen anywhere. During a concert’s interval here, we can look towards the Houses of Parliament and reflect that while we have been listening to the poetry of Brahms and Berlioz, over there they have all the time been talking prose, blank prose often, without knowing it. Great music alongside the Thames is a conjunction tremendously appealing to the imagination. Londoners should not take such things too much for granted. The hall was packed in all parts for the new house-warming; a happy sight, I am sure, in the eyes of director Ernest Bean. He has had the destiny of the RFH in his charge since the empirical beginning - when certain parts of the London press were already calling the building the LCC’s “white elephant.” Nobody, we were warned, would cross the river to the South Bank to listen to music on dark winter nights - for all the world as though the hall’s position on the metropolitan map were in some such place once denoted by the ancient cartographers by the fearsome inscription, “Here are lions.” It is good to learn that Mr Bean will not go into retirement yet - officially his term is “up” - but will hold an active watching brief for some months to come. He has been largely responsible for the Royal Festival Hall’s present position and prestige in world’s concert super-markets. The more we change things in this aged conservative island the more they remain, of course, the same thing. The RFH remains familiar enough, on the whole, the auditorium, the bar, the music. This inaugural concert’s programme was the “Meister-singer” overture, the second piano concerto of Brahms, with Serkin the soloist, and “excerpts” from “Romeo and Juliet” of Berlioz. Colin Davis conducted the London Symphony Orchestra. An excellent idea, to ask the most gifted of our young conductors to direct musically on such an occasion. I had nearly forgotten! - one of the new hall’s possible amenities is television for late-comers. I foresee the time is at hand when concert halls will be built with auditoriums for folk who can’t get into the television room. 