 An attempt to use data protection regulations to force a campaign group to hand over personal information relating to a billion-dollar mining deal has been defeated. The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) has ruled that Global Witness does not need to surrender material gathered in the course of its investigation into the Simandou ore mines in Guinea, west Africa. The decision is believed to be the first in which legal protection available to media organisations has been extended to others carrying out journalistic work and sets a significant precedent. Lawyers for four people connected to the mining conglomerate BSG Resources (BSGR) launched the highly unusual legal action last year, claiming damages for breaches of their data protection rights. The Israeli businessman Beny Steinmetz, one of the world’s wealthiest men, controls BSGR through family trusts. Those associated with the company complained that BSGR was the subject of “a sustained, negative publicity campaign by Global Witness” and that it was illegal to retain personal information. They now plan to appeal against the ICO’s latest ruling. In a letter sent to both sides last week, the ICO concluded that Global Witness did not need to comply with the request to surrender the information. The ICO statement said: “We are … satisfied that Global Witness’ aim is to publish reports about the Simandou controversy and the personal data requested by the data subjects’ is being processed in connection with those reports.” “We do not consider Global Witness’ concerns about the negative effect that complying with … access requests would have on [their] journalistic activities to be unreasonable. “We are, therefore, satisfied that Global Witness is only processing the personal data requested by the data subjects for the purpose of journalism.” Global Witness, which was founded in 1993, has described the legal action as an attempt to stifle journalism and investigations carried out in the public interest. It welcomed the ruling as confirmation that exemptions for journalism in the Data Protection Act 1998 apply to anyone engaged in public-interest reporting, not just the conventional media. “It is a victory for press freedom because it defines journalists by what they do, not whom they work for,” said Leigh Baldwin, an investigative journalist at Global Witness. “With non-traditional media playing a growing role in exposing corruption and human rights abuses, all journalists - and their sources – need to know they can rely on the same protections available to the mainstream press.” A spokesman for those associated with BSGR said: “The ICO has not applied the law correctly and we will be asking the courts to review its decision.” Last year Dag Cramer, the chief executive of Onyx Financial Advisers, an adviser to BSGR and one of those who has brought the action, said: “We tried for more than a year to avoid this outcome, because we consider Global Witness’s declared aims to be laudable. Unfortunately, the organisation has entirely failed to live up to its own principles.” In April, Guinea stripped BSGR of its concession to mine the Simandou mountains. 