 Roger Federer will already have half an eye on another major record after surpassing Jimmy Connors' all-time record of 160 consecutive weeks as world No1 today. Such is the dominance of the triple grand-slam titleholder that he is allowing himself to consider the possibility of overtaking Pete Sampras's record of 286 weeks in total as No1. Whether Federer is entirely wise to do so is questionable, although it is good for the promotion of the game that such records have a fascination for him because he is likely to have many more opportunities to talk about them. "This is definitely going to stay maybe for quite some time," he said about today's great statistic. "I'll definitely keep it for three years. It's a nice record to have and it's very hard to beat. It's not something you do overnight. It's a long hard-working process. I've known I am going to break it ever since I beat Andy Roddick in the Masters Cup - Jimmy Connors being there - so it's actually quite ironic. "I've been looking forward to this day. Even if I lose it eventually I still think I will be very high always up in the record books and that is very nice to see. And hopefully I can break the all-time record [Sampras's total of 286 weeks]. This is just the one in a row, you know." It is testimony both to the Swiss's ability and style that he somehow manages not to sound arrogant when discussing something which is at least another two years off and maybe longer. He is still only 25 and there other stats suggesting he is building irresistible momentum. Recently he also set a record for the most ranking points - 8,370 - held at any time by a player, he is the only man in the open era to win 10 or more titles in three consecutive seasons, and he has an astonishing 94.5% winning record from 264 matches. Perhaps it is safe to lift his eyes to the horizon occasionally. Federer was also savouring to his comfortable-looking first-round match with Kristian Pless today in the Dubai Open, in contrast with the difficult one Rafael Nadal, the title-holder here, has landed with Marcos Baghdatis, the world No17. "Yeah, he probably has the toughest," agreed Federer. "It's actually fun him [Nadal] drawing Baghdatis. It's like when I drew Marat [Safin] in the first round a few years ago. It's kind of fun for a first round." Nadal is unlikely to agree. In Memphis, Andy Murray admitted that his recent form had deserted him as he lost to Roddick in their Morgan Keegan championship semi-final. The Scot succumbed 6-3 7-6 (7-4) to the American top seed, whom he beat at the same stage on the way to defending his SAP Open title in San Jose last week. "I didn't play a great match today, in fairness," Murray said. "I had my chance at 5-3 to win the set and played a horrible game to get broken. In the tie-break I missed one bad shot at 4-3, a forehand that hit the tape, and to be fair to him he came up with some big shots and big serves and deserved to win the match, but I definitely didn't play my best today. The two things that are important to do against him I didn't really do - I didn't serve particularly well and didn't return well." Roddick faced the defending champion Tommy Haas, of Germany, in the final. Most weeks at No1 Pete Sampras US 286 Ivan Lendl Cz 270 Jimmy Connors US 268 John McEnroe US 170 Roger Federer Switz 160 