 Steve Finn, at 6ft 8in, is the tallest player ever to represent England and, even as he undergoes a tough baptism on the energy-sapping pitches of Bangladesh, good judges are looking on and wondering if he has the wherewithal to bowl fast against Australia in the Ashes next winter. They famously break ships for scrap metal a few miles away in Chittagong harbour, but at the ZA Chowdhury Stadium they prefer to break budding fast bowlers. Finn's Test debut could not have less in common with the demands he would face in Brisbane in November, but if he builds on this experience an Ashes call-up might not be just a tall story. Finn, just 20, is the debutant in a limited, four-strong England attack which entered the final day still five wickets short of victory against the weakest Test side in the world. Before he was called up 10 days ago, he had imagined he would be in a tent on Dartmoor, on an army boot camp on Middlesex's pre-season tour. This footslog, which has brought him two wickets so far in carefully rationed spells, sounds as if it has better career prospects. He used to claim that he was 6ft 7in because of embarrassment, but he now admits to an extra inch, leaving him taller than Chris Tremlett, Tony Greig and David Larter. "I feel like I am a bit of a freak when I say I'm 6ft 8in," said Finn. "I was a skeleton about three years ago. I was real skin and bones. My uncle called me x-ray boy, but now I'm filling out and I'm working hard on getting stronger." To his credit, he is suspicious of the sudden talk of the Ashes. Angus Fraser, the former England seam bowler, is in charge at Middlesex and he does not have much time for overnight sensations. Finn knows that the summer ahead must give him a solid grounding and that might be best achieved back in county cricket. At the start of the winter he could not even get in the starting 11 for England Lions. "It would be lovely to be on an Ashes tour, but by no means am I targeting it. There will have to be a lot of hard work before now and then to prove I am performing consistently. I have been performing quite well for a month," said Finn. "I have been sat down and told what they think I can bring to the team. It is almost ego boosting to be told you are going to be playing Test cricket. They are looking for pace and bounce obviously, and now I have proved I can bowl a reverse-swinging ball." 