After details of the infidelity website’s 33m members were leaked online, Rob Segal and James Millership had a job on their hands to salvage the damaged brand 
 Can Ashley Madison shake off her bad reputation? “We talk about her as Lindsay Lohan,” says Rob Segal, chief executive of Ruby, the company behind the infidelity website hacked last year. “People are interested in her good and bad.” People are definitely interested in her. Despite last year’s calamitous security breach which saw the confidential account details of 33 million members of the site – which used the slogan “Life is short. Have an affair” – leaked online, it attracted close to 5 million new subscribers in the months that followed.  The Canadian website has now reached 49 million members, according to a ticker that adds about 20,000 a day, perhaps proving that there is no such thing as bad publicity. The scale of the appetite for the site’s services also explains the willingness of Segal and his business partner, James Millership, to risk their reputations on the seemingly toxic brand.  “We thought there was an opportunity in the chaos,” says Segal, who was parachuted in to run parent company, Avid Life Media, back in April. The thick-skinned advertising executive says: “We thought about her as a Hollywood starlet gone wrong and who needed to check into rehab.” Segal replaced Noel Biderman, the self styled “king of infidelity”, whose energetic touting of the brand in the US saw the financial press talk seriously about a $1bn (£770m) listing in London just months before its servers were compromised by a cybergroup calling themselves the Impact Team.  Segal and Millership did several months of due diligence before joining the company, which is backed by a group of wealthy Canadian investors who supported the rebranding of Avid Life. But the first thing the duo did was to run it by their partners. “It was obviously something we discussed,” they say in unison. “My wife was very excited,” says Segal of his partner of 25 years. “My background is marketing so I’ve had lots of different clients and challenges.” Millership, who also describes himself as being in a “committed relationship”, says his partner was also “supportive about the opportunity”. Biderman was sacked in the weeks after the hack. Much of his legacy has now been unpicked by the pair who had previously worked together on the turnaround of Canadian eSports platform WorldGaming. In July it was announced that Avid Life Media was being reborn as Ruby – a name plucked from the dictionary because of its “sensual, feminine quality” and implied value. The controversial strapline for Ashley Madison was also consigned to the marketing dustbin. While Segal works on the branding side of the business, Millership is focused on operations. The latter says it has invested millions improving the security of its sites, which also include Established Men and Cougar Life.   Revenues for Ruby are expected to be around $80m (£61m) this year, down from around $109m in 2015, as the hack exacts its toll. Back in July the company apologised to customers for the Ashley Madison data breach, pledging it was “truly sorry for how people’s lives and relationships may have been affected”. But in the same breath it got back down to business, promising it had been investing heavily in “privacy safeguards” and that new “secure and discreet payment options” were now available. The decision to drop its erstwhile USP of extramarital affairs, in a growing market where taste spans the Guardian’s own website Soulmates to Milftastic.com, was based on analysis of its user data. “It was important to have a voice that spoke to all our members, and what they were looking for, and that was lots of different things: chat, fantasy, kink, threesomes,” explains Segal of the shift.  The pair have flown in from their native Toronto to speak at a dating industry conference where the topics include “what happens after you both swipe right: a statistical description of mobile dating communications” as smartphone apps make waves in the industry. According to a recent report by market analysts Mintel, the UK’s competitive online dating market is expected to grow from £165m to £225m by 2019.   “This is a mature audience that doesn’t need to be hit over the head,” continues Segal. “We could see that it was polarising to be that graphic and in your face with the message. It was good at spiking the business but was not good for the long-term health of the business.” One of the things Ashley Madison – named after the most popular girls’ names in the US when the site was launched in the early noughties – lacks is women, with a ratio of five men to every woman on the site.  In the wake of the hack it emerged that many of its female profiles were actually computer-programmed “fembots” designed to lure men into spending more money. Women can join for free but men, who on average spend $200 a year, pay with credits to chat to them. Millership insists there are no bots on the site today but the company is still dealing with the fallout from last year’s hack with two class action lawsuits and investigations by the Privacy Commissioner of Canada and the US Federal Trade Commission. At the end of his conference talk, one questioner essentially asks how Segal sleeps at night, but he is matter of fact. “People ask what kind of guys are you? We’re just two normal guys, we’re marketers and [business] operators who look at this as the challenge of a lifetime.” 