 Andy Murray overcame the searing heat to produce some scorching tennis as he saw off Dmitry Tursunov 6-3, 6-3 to clinch a place in the quarter-finals of the Cincinnati Masters. Aside from some brief wobbles in the first set, the world number nine found his best form to move a step closer to a possible last-four clash against Roger Federer. There was little sign of the nagging knee injury which has hampered him in recent weeks as he maintained the level of performance which saw him run Rafael Nadal close in the semis of the Toronto Masters last week. Murray came from 30-0 down to break Tursunov in the opening game before firing an ace with his first serve of the match to make an ominous statement of intent. The Russian saw off compatriot and Wimbledon semi-finalist Marat Safin in the first round before benefiting from Richard Gasquet's retirement yesterday, but he struggled early on as the Scot pulled him all over the court. Murray briefly took his foot off the accelerator in the fourth, missing routine passing shots to hand a first break opportunity to Tursunov. But the 21-year-old showed trademark tenacity to chase down what seemed certain to be a winner and force an error from Tursunov. Murray went on to hold and gain a significant psychological advantage. Perhaps almost as predictably, however, Murray then allowed his opponent a foothold into the match with a break back in the sixth game. Tursunov gained increasing confidence, typified by a glorious forehand winner up the line in the seventh, as he sought a first win over Murray at the fifth attempt. But in a see-saw first set, the world number 34 then sent down two double faults in the same game to hand Murray a second break - which he consolidated for 5-3. An outrageous, spinning backhand drop shot handed the Briton a first set point on Tursunov's serve, and a booming forehand winner sealed it 6-3. Murray claimed three break points in the second game of the second set and needed all of them before clinching his 25-year-old opponent's service game in style. A beautifully-constructed and lengthy rally ended with a stunning crosscourt backhand winner which appeared to be the last straw for the Russian's hopes. Murray, playing a series of delightful shots, then held to love to move 3-0 ahead. Tursunov battled gamely but the eighth seed was rarely troubled as he clinched the second set to line up a clash with Igor Andreev or Carlos Moya in the last eight.  