 Andy Murray resembles an elderly lady reading the obituaries column of the local newspaper and being secretly pleased on finding names of friends and acquaintances younger than herself who have died. The Scot knows he needs to stay alive to qualify for the Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai next week but he would much prefer all his rivals to give up the ghost. "To be honest, I'd rather everybody else lost and I didn't have to keep winning," he said yesterday after beating Finland's Jarkko Nieminen 7-6, 6-3 to reach the last 16 of the BNP Paribas Masters. Slowly, a little too slowly for Murray's liking, his potential rivals for the two remaining places in the eight-man Shanghai field are being whittled down, and the seemingly good news for Murray was that Novak Djokovic, the world No3, whom he might have played today in the third round here, was easily defeated by France's 34-year-old Fabrice Santoro, the oldest player in the top 50. Pete Sampras may have dubbed Santoro "the magician", and the years have not staled the variety of his double-fisted forehand and backhand, but the legs are not what they were, and one is swathed in support bandages after he tore a muscle in Lyon last week. Not that Murray will treat him with anything other than caution. "He is my favourite player to watch. You won't see a game style like his probably for the rest of my career," said Murray. "He's just a completely different player and hits some unbelievable shots." The Scot will need to be careful, given his penchant for the more unusual shot, that he does not get drawn into the sort of chess game of which Santoro is a master. He feels victory is well within his grasp. Another day, another step closer to China, or so Murray hopes. Djokovic, who with Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Nikolay Davydenko, Andy Roddick and David Ferrer has qualified for the Masters Cup, entered the arena wearing a Halloween mask then blamed his defeat on a wisdom tooth extraction, though it hardly took the wisdom of Solomon to figure out he had not put heart and soul into the match against Santoro. The 20-year-old Serbian let the cat out of the bag when he revealed he would be leaving for China on Sunday "so I will have five or six days' preparation in Shanghai". Santoro, who has never played Murray but has practised with him, has a lot of admiration for the Scot. "He's a great player. He has good hands and knows the game pretty well for a young player. He always plays the right shots. I remember the first time I practised with him in Melbourne I was very surprised how much time he had to hit every shot. And that's a very important quality." Sometimes Murray, because of his ability, is tempted to overdo the finesse. He was fortunate against Nieminen that a missed backhand drop shot, which saw him go 5-3 down in the first-set tie-break, was not exploited. He strongly believes that he deserves to be at the Masters Cup: "It's almost like the last game of a football season and you know you just need to draw and hope that the other teams lose. It's tough to focus on your own match." But focus he must, particularly against the wily Santoro. 