1 Strictly BallroomExpect the dancefloor to sizzle with the UK premiere of this musical version of Baz Luhrmann’s hit film. The story of success against adversity set in the highly competitive world of ballroom dancing will spring few surprises. No matter, because with the brilliant Olivier award-winning Drew McOnie both directing and choreographing this is likely to set sparks flying. LGWest Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, to 21 Jan 2 Bollywood JackTara Arts marks its first Christmas in its new permanent home in Earlsfield with an Asian take on a familiar tale. The company already has panto previous with versions of Dick Whittington and Cinderella, and now offers a version of Jack And The Beanstalk, written by Farrukh Dhondy and directed by artistic director Jatinder Verma, making his debut at the venue. MCTara Arts, SW18, Wed to 7 Jan 3 Sweet CharitySweet Charity is one of the most iconic musical films of the 60s, starring Shirley MacLaine and featuring the stunning choreography of Bob Fosse. Derek Bond (who returns to Manchester after a praised Little Shop Of Horrors), directs the struggles of dancehall hostess Charity Hope Valentine to find love in New York, while Aletta Collins choreographs such showstoppers as Big Spender and The Rhythm Of Life. MCRoyal Exchange Theatre, Manchester, Sat to 28 Jan 4 Peter PanYou are never too old to fly to Neverland, and JM Barrie’s masterpiece continues to both delight and horrify in equal measure. Sally Cookson’s free-flying, brilliantly playful version was first seen at Bristol Old Vic in 2012, and unlike its eponymous antihero it should have matured very nicely in this revised version. Cookson gives Wendy a more central place in the story and there’s plenty of cross-dressing, including Anna Francolini’s Captain Hook. LGOlivier, SE1, to 4 Feb 5 CinderellaBesides its live Sunday-night TV variety show of the 50s and 60s, the London Palladium was also known from 1948 to 1987 for its pantomimes. Now, nearly 30 years on, panto returns to the iconic venue with a star-stuffed Cinderella. Natasha J Barnes – Sheridan Smith’s acclaimed understudy in Funny Girl – plays the title role, joining Paul O’Grady, Julian Clary, Amanda Holden, Nigel Havers and Count Arthur Strong. MCLondon Palladium, W1, 10 Dec to 15 Jan 6 Annie Get Your GunThings go both wild and west in Sheffield, where the brilliant Anna-Jane Casey stars as sharpshooting Annie Oakley. It’s an unashamedly old-fashioned show but it should be whip-crackingly good fun with songs including There’s No Business Like Show Business and Anything You Can Do. Following the departure to Chichester Festival Theatre of Daniel Evans, who always delivered a bullseye of a festive show, the Crucible will be aiming straight for the heart with this one. LGCrucible, Sheffield, Fri to 21 Jan 7 Saint JoanUntil recently, Gemma Arterton (pictured, right) was best known for her film career, but her latter forays on to the stage have seen her theatrical star rise in productions including Made In Dagenham, which earned her an Evening Standard best newcomer award. Now she tackles a more meaty role – last played by Anne-Marie Duff at the National, so no pressure – as Joan of Arc in George Bernard Shaw’s powerful state v church drama. MCDonmar Warehouse, WC2, Fri to 18 Feb 8 Simon CallowWith those fruity tones – like a Christmas pudding – Simon Callow (pictured, below) is the go-to actor for all things seasonal, and he’s more than familiar with Dickens, too, having written two well-received books about the author. With his one-man version of A Christmas Carol, all our Christmases have come at once. MCArts Theatre, WC2, Thu to 7 Jan 9 The Siege Of ChristmasContact Young Company comes together with Slung Low’s Alan Lane to make a Christmas show with a difference. Taking children and adults on a journey around the theatre, this is an interactive adventure in which everyone must work together. Lane had terrific fun with 59 Minutes To Save Christmas at the Barbican a few years back, so this should be one of the most original Christmas shows around. LGContact, Manchester, 15 to 22 Dec 10 Black BeautyMake sure hankies are at the ready when you saddle up for this new version of Anna Sewell’s classic story. Three of Scotland’s finest theatre-makers for young audiences – Shona Reppe, Andy Manley and Andy Cannon – reimagine the story from the point of Black Beauty himself, using storytelling, puppetry and music. LGTraverse Theatre, Edinburgh, to 24 Dec 1 The Nutcracker  A welcome return for Sir Peter Wright’s engagingly lively but fully traditional version of the Christmas classic, brought to life by Birmingham Royal Ballet. JMBirmingham Hippodrome, to 13 Dec 2 The Wolf And PeterA breakdancing wolf (pictured, above) takes centre stage in David Bolger’s funny and imaginative family show for CoisCéim Dance Theatre, with pianist Conor Linehan playing live. JMBirmingham Hippodrome, Sat; Dance City, Newcastle upon Tyne, Wed to 10 Dec 3 Up & DownEifman Ballet’s new jazz-age production takes inspiration from George Gershwin and F Scott Fitzgerald’s Tender is the Night, among others, to tell the story of a psychiatrist-turned-patient. JMColiseum, WC2, Tue to 10 Dec 