 The big screen at home has become commonplace of late. TVs the size of small aquariums can be bought for such paltry sums that everyone, it seems, now owns a domestic cinema of sorts. A projector takes that to the next level, creating the illusion of living room as auditorium for a fraction of the cost of the equivalent television. You don’t even need to splash out on a dedicated projector screen; any patch of white or lightly coloured wall will suffice. Which one to choose, though? Tiny pocket projectors can be tucked away in a drawer or a bag, but need darker rooms. Short-throw projectors perform miracles with light, bending photons from impossible positions right below your screen, but you’ll pay for the privilege. Others add powerful speakers, software voodoo to magically improve picture quality… the choices are many and confusing. Here’s a roundup of five of the most interesting and effective around, to help you find a projector to light up your domestic life. £270, 50 lumens, 854 X 480 resolution  If hobbits were home-cinema enthusiasts they’d probably be tempted by the RIF6, a diminutive, cube-shaped projector suitable for the tiniest of hands – and budgets. Finished in glittering silver and obsidian black, like some rare Elvish artefact, the RIF6 is a surprisingly utilitarian device. It can play back video from phones, laptops and tablets directly through its MHL-compatible HDMI input and also plays files from memory cards. In the box is a tripod of equally compact dimensions, lending the projector Ent-like stability on most surfaces, plus a remote control and a full set of cables. It even has its very own rechargeable internal battery. This is a portable projector, and it has a lower resolution than its more lumpen relations, so the image isn’t as sharp or bright. But draw the curtains, snuff the candles and big screens of up to 2.5 metres across are surprisingly watchable. Verdict: Don’t go on any quest without one.  £1,400, 2,000 lumens, 1,920 X 1,080 resolution  Reminiscent more of a chicken bucket than a means of recreating the cinema experience in the living room, the Philips Screeneo 2.0 offers a unique blend of features. Unlike most projectors, which must be placed metres away from the surface on to which it projects, the Philips can nestle in much closer proximity. Positioned 10cm away from a wall, a 127cm display can be created; from 42cm, that inflates to a vision-filling 2.5 metres, and with high brightness and contrast its 1080p image is watchable with and without the curtains drawn. The Screeneo’s credit list of talents doesn’t end there, though: in the base of the bucket sits a bank of speakers capable of delivering full-bodied sound to embarrass the output of many a shrill LCD TV. Not many projectors are this good and this flexible, but the price matches its list of capabilities. Verdict: Flexible but expensive. £700, 3,000 lumens, 1,920 x 1,080 resolution Those seeking the finest image quality and biggest screen can spend thousands on a TV, but the Optoma can deliver acres more for far less. The ace up this machine’s sleeve is its Darbee image processing. Nothing to do with horse racing or contests between teams that happen to be cartographically close, this is instead a clever piece of imaging wizardry that amplifies textures and details to an inconceivable extent. Projected images take on near physical presence, skin pores are displayed with medical detail and hair looks so palpable one feels almost able to pluck it. It’s the next best thing to going to the cinema itself, and its long lamp life of up to 8,000 hours means you won’t have to pay the ticket price for a replacement for years. Verdict: A box-office smash. £799, 2,000 lumens, 1,920 X 1,080 resolution The Lumière brothers would have gaped, slack-jawed at the cinematic capabilities of the BenQ W2000. Squeezed into a unit the size of a gentleman’s valise is a celluloid-beating, movie theatre in a box, able to recreate wall-filling moving images brimful with dazzling detail. The key to the W2000’s appeal is the adaptability of its lens, which can be shifted up, down, in and out, as if it were on a camera boom, for fine-tuning the position of the image without the anguish of quality degradation. It’s whisper-quiet compared with its colleagues, overflowing with connections and effortless to operate. Your only problem may be dragging yourself away from the screen. Verdict: Picture perfect but pricey. £479, 3,200 lumens, 1,920 x 1,080 resolution The ViewSonic is our least expensive “proper projector” and yet its cast of specifications is a laundry list of high-tech, home-cinema buzzwords. It has a six-segment colour wheel, a maximum brightness rating of 3,200 lumens, a maximum contrast of 22,000:1 and a Blu-ray-ready resolution of 1,080p. In isolation no one would lament the quality of its image. In juxtaposition with its rivals, however, it can’t match the intensity of the Optoma or the immaculate refinement of the BenQ. It lacks some essentials, too, with a measly selection of inputs and a non-backlit remote control, while its fan is a touch obstreperous. But the price is more palatable, you may find yourself making excuses for it instead. Verdict: Basic but beautiful. 