 Andy Murray will take over the world No3 spot in a week's time, the first British player to reach such a level since the rankings were introduced in 1973, after Novak Djokovic lost 7–6, 6–2 to Rafael Nadal in the final of the Italian Open yesterday. Short of introducing some sort of handicapping system, or simply bribing him not to turn up, the chances of anybody beating Nadal in a clay-court final currently seem something less than zero. Djokovic, the second-best player on clay this year, ­frequently managed to make the world No1 at least seem human but could not prevent him winning his fourth title at the Foro Italico, a modern record. Djokovic, now working hard to improve his sometimes suspect stamina, had beaten Roger Federer in Saturday's semi-final and again yesterday he played some wonderfully fluent tennis, interspersed with occasional supplications to an unknown deity and occasional flashes of rage at the impossibility of defeating arguably the greatest clay-court player of all time. There were moments, notably in the latter stages of the first set, which lasted an hour and 14 minutes, when Nadal missed forehands, albeit by a fraction, that he normally puts away in his sleep. Here, perhaps, were intimations of a future when the Spaniard will be vulnerable, but nobody expects that day soon. Djokovic, who took a set off Nadal in the Monte Carlo Masters final recently, must be sick of the sight of him on clay: he has lost all their meetings, including the last two semi-finals at the French Open, which Nadal will be attempting to win for the fifth successive time later this month. This was Nadal's 15 Masters title, including three this year, which puts him ahead of Federer and just two behind Andre Agassi, the record holder. The Spaniard has never been beaten at Roland Garros or lost a match on clay over five sets, while since 2005 he has now won 147 out of 151 matches on the surface. Anne Keothavong, Britain's No1, was beaten 7–6, 6–4 in the opening round of the women's tournament here by Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro. 