Suzanne Evans was once Nigel Farage’s chosen successor, but then she was suspended for disloyalty. Now she is running to lead the party anyway, and her pitch as the ‘sensible’ candidate is distinctly persuasive – to start with, at least Suzanne Evans was once Nigel Farage’s chosen successor, but then she was suspended for disloyalty. Now she is running to lead the party anyway, and her pitch as the ‘sensible’ candidate is distinctly persuasive – to start with, at least 
Decca Aitkenhead 
 In the weird world of Ukip, there are stranger characters than Suzanne Evans. She isn’t even the oddest contender in the party’s current leadership race. Not by a long way. One candidate who joined the race this week was filmed in 2014 replying to an eye-wateringly homophobic question with an anecdote about the time he saw a donkey try to rape his horse. Deleted tweets by another rival also surfaced this week, including one in which he wished that someone would “tape Nicola Sturgeon’s mouth shut … and her legs, so she can’t reproduce”. All things being relative, it is therefore not unreasonable of Evans to cast herself as Ukip’s poster girl for normality – the sage and sane choice to succeed Nigel Farage. So it feels fair to begin with her strong points. She was game enough to give her first big press interview to the Guardian, when the safer bet would have been a more obviously sympathetic paper. Most politicians are too wary of an Ed “two kitchens” Miliband-style debacle to allow an interview in their own home, so Evans’ invitation to her flat in a south London suburb feels similarly spirited. But we are here on her sofa, I soon see, because even Ukip’s most professional candidate does not have either the office facilities, or tactical training, of a backbench MP. A former BBC radio journalist who runs her own PR company, Evans looks and sounds a lot like middle England – or, as Andrew Marr put it to her on his show, Penelope Keith in The Good Life – and wants to reposition her party in that centre ground. She is, as she says many times, the “moderate, sensible” face of Ukip. To date, Ukip’s only unifying vision, beyond getting out of Europe, has been of a world without “political correctness gone mad”, but anti-PC reforms Farage regarded as “common sense” are briskly ruled out by Evans. “I actually really like the smoking ban!” she exclaims with a tinkly laugh. “So I definitely disagree with Nigel on that one.” She wouldn’t dream of relaxing the drink-driving laws (“No, good God no, absolutely not”) nor wage war on speed cameras (“I am passionately anti-speeding”). Not keen on gay marriage at first, she now finds it “charming”, approves of gay couples adopting (“Good parenting is what counts”) and is delighted that bed-and-breakfast owners can no longer turn away guests out of prejudice. She did have a golliwog as a child, which she “absolutely loved,” but later in life a black boyfriend “opened my eyes” to this “unacceptable stereotype”, and now “I totally see his point”. Her father died when she was six, leaving her penniless, working-class mother to raise her alone. Evans became a working single mother herself, after her brief and only marriage broke down, and raised her own daughter alone. There is nothing abstract or contrived about her emphatic feminism, and when she frames the case against multicultural Britain as a moral duty to protect ethnic-minority women from oppression, for once this argument doesn’t sound like xenophobia disguised as feminism, but rings true. “I will not stand by and see women in ethnic-minority communities treated worse than I am as a white, middle-class woman simply because they’re in a different religion to me. It’s unacceptable. Women’s rights are women’s rights. I don’t care what class or background or culture you come from, you should have exactly the same rights as anyone else.” Like every Ukip politician I have met, Evans claims to have never heard a single racist word in her party. Unlike most, however, she appears genuinely disgusted, not just embarrassed, by ugly comments periodically reported in the press. “There have been times when I’ve cringed, it’s been dreadful. It’s not nice, being out campaigning and being called a racist in the street. Or being spat on, or being abused. Changing that unfair reputation of Ukip is vital.” Under her leadership, Evans would make the party “friendlier, more approachable, broaden our appeal … Do we want to trot along getting one MP into parliament every general election? Or do we want to put ourselves right at the heart of British politics, and do we want to succeed? If we want to be a party that actually wins elections, we need to do better. We can’t have continuity Ukip. We need to have a big change that will bring in not just 4 million but 8 million voters. I’m the candidate that will expand the party, and broaden our appeal, particularly to women, and make us dramatically more electable. With me as leader of Ukip, we can have a really strong alternative to the Labour party.” If I were a Labour MP in a deprived, northern, pro-Brexit town, I’d be worried by now. Only Evans’ leadership rivals may be as relieved to learn that her dangerously persuasive pitch begins to fall apart once she has delivered all her pre-prepared soundbites, but still cannot stop talking. At first the gaffes are fairly trivial; she designates a policy to the department of trade, which ceased to exist nearly 10 years ago. She might have meant the Department for International Trade, of course, but the error is only the least bizarre element of the whole proposal. If we fail to agree a trade deal with the EU, and WTO tariffs are the only solution, she says, “We’ll be the ones that are quids in.” Everyone agrees that tariffs would damage the EU more than us, because the EU sells more to us than it buys, so has more to lose when higher prices make everything harder to sell. But Evans must have confused this relative advantage with a notion that tariffs will actually make us better off. Because she goes on, “We can use that net benefit – that net profit, if you like – to support any businesses which find that the imposition of external tariffs is causing them a problem. We will have enough money in the pot to compensate them.” Through what mechanism? “You would do it, you would do it through the mechanism of, er – the business department. You’d just have to, you’d just have to refund – they could make an application for support and it would come out of this pot. You’d set up a pot. Somehow.” A pot? “Yeah, well, I just think, if you look – I’m not clear exactly how you’d do it, I haven’t really thought it through. You just – there would – we would have a net balance of payments, the country would be better off as a result of – it’s not us that’s going to lose out, it’s the EU who’s going to lose out. So we would have a greater income on the import tariffs that we put on the European Union. So you take those import tariffs and then you give them back to any business that’s struggling and could prove there was any hardship as a result of being forced to adopt the WTO external tariff. Then I think there would arguably be a pot of money there that they could fall back on, if needs be. I don’t see why that shouldn’t be possible.” There is a very simple reason why it would not be possible: it is illegal under WTO rules. But even if it weren’t, the logic of her scheme is baffling. If tariffs depress sales, it’s difficult to see how they can simultaneously generate a big pot of new profit. If somehow they can, it’s even harder to see how we can sell less than the EU yet be the side that’s “quids in”, and harder still to see how so much money would be allowed to bypass the treasury for the department of business. “Sorry, I mean it would be the department of trade.” She gives a shrill, uneasy laugh. “Yes, sorry! Department of trade, yes. I would have thought so, yeah.” By now she looks almost as embarrassed as I do. “Sorry. I’m just floating an idea here.” I suspect she hadn’t intended to say much about her rival candidate, Raheem Kassam, either. Farage’s close confidante and former chief of staff edits the British version of Breitbart, a jaw-droppingly rightwing online newspaper that makes the Daily Mail look like the Morning Star. His vision for Ukip is to emulate Donald Trump, which appals Evans almost as much as his willingness to allow ex-BNP members to join. Having insisted she doesn’t want to talk about Kassam, because “there is no appetite in the country for his far-right views”, she accuses him of inventing lies to smear her, “sticking the knife in right left and centre”, and being “incredibly sexist towards me”. She still has a screenshot of a tweet he has deleted, calling her a “wrinkly old ginger bird”. She won’t say if she’d quit the party if he won, “because it’s not going to happen”, but when later I ask if she would defect from the Tory party today, had she not done so in 2013, she snorts: “Not if Raheem were leading the party. I think I’d just give up politics altogether.” Despite her best intentions, she can’t help laying into Farage, either. Evans still can’t understand why – having trusted her to write Ukip’s general election manifesto, and nominating her as his successor when he resigned in May last year – from the moment he reinstated himself as leader he has “isolated” her and waged a “Stalinist” vendetta to get her purged from the party. “To be accused of disloyalty was the hardest, because I have never been disloyal to Ukip. Sorry, Nigel, but I have to call you out on this, it’s simply not true.” Asked what she would do about the migrant camp in Calais, her first answer sounds like the one she meant to give. Being “completely unqualified” to judge a refugee’s age, she would delegate the task to a “panel of experts”, and her agonised laments about the moral dilemma posed by the camp might have made her look compassionate, had she only been able to stop there. But she carries on talking, sabotaging any impression of compassion as her tone hardens, speculating that “unaccompanied” minors couldn’t have got to Calais alone, so must have been left there by parents who would miraculously “pop up” and demand to be reunited once their child had made it to Britain. As for Calais’ adults, “You try and break the rules, travel across six countries to get here, because you’re trying your luck, and try to knock a few lorry drivers on the head and try to burst into Britain? That’s criminal behaviour, and the way these so-called refugees have behaved in Calais, and treated our truckers, is absolutely disgusting.” If elected, her first priority will be to get parliament to repeal the 1972 European Communities Act, after which we can forget all about Article 50, a timewasting “con job” quite unnecessary for leaving the EU. The sooner we’re out of the EU the better, before a “massive establishment plot” to keep us in can gain traction. Bremoaners like Mark Carney are cynically “talking our economy down to create a self-fulfilling prophecy” and frighten the country into thinking Project Fear might come true. I think the answer she meant to give (about whether Carney should remain in his job) is the one she offers twice: “I don’t know why he wants to be here, as he appears to hate this country so much!” But when I ask again, she thinks for a moment, and agrees, “Yeah, probably.” I find myself marvelling at Evans’ determination to lead a party that she herself admits has “caused me more trouble than either the Tories or Labour” during the past 18 months. She hasn’t spoken to Farage since he suspended her for six months for “disloyalty” in the spring, and it’s been 18 months since she talked to Arron Banks, the party’s most high-profile donor. She didn’t talk to Diane James during her 18-day leadership, nor has she been in touch since James stood down. (“I must give her a ring.”) Nor has she spoken to Steven Woolfe since he was hospitalised following an altercation with another Ukip MP, and sees her closest ally, Douglas Carswell, “no more than once a week”. She calls herself “feisty”, and her self-belief seems dauntless, but a story she tells about failing her 11-plus makes me wonder. She claims her school didn’t tell her she was sitting the real test, and that she didn’t bother to complete what she thought was just another practice paper. The tale sounds farfetched, frankly, and yet 40 years later she still needs to tell it. I sense a hint of some deep need to prove herself – or to prove people wrong. Why, I ask, does she even want to lead a party with which she is barely on speaking terms? “Because I believe I can actually make this party work. I know I can. There’s a desperate, gaping hole in British politics for a party like Ukip, there really is. It is an open goal, and I’m the right person to pick up the ball and run with it.” 