Labour leader will set out principles of his leadership before head-to-head encounter with his challenger, Owen Smith 
Peter Walker and 
Rowena Mason 
 Jeremy Corbyn will set out a 10-point vision for the future of Britain, promising full employment throughout the UK’s regions and nations brought about in part by £500bn of public spending. Speaking on Thursday in Dagenham, Essex, he will set out the principles of his leadership before the first head-to-head encounter with his challenger, Owen Smith, at a live debate in Cardiff in the evening. Corbyn’s pledges are expected to include bringing about full employment, job security through stronger employment rights and an NHS free of any private sector influence. His first pledge will be to create 1m good quality jobs by investing £500bn in infrastructure, manufacturing and new industries, supported by a publicly owned national investment bank. John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme a huge programme of investment was needed, which is backed by business groups such as the CBI. Rejecting the idea that the markets would take fright at more borrowing, he said: “It would barely spook the markets if virtually every single independent economic adviser has provided that advice to the government and other European capitals ... When you reach some limits of monetary policy you reach for fiscal stimulus.” He said it would be better to borrow because interest rates are so low than go for the “people’s quantitative easing” plan advocated by Corbyn in his last leadership election. Corbyn’s second pledge will be to improve job security, giving people stronger employment rights immediately after they begin a new job.  He will claim a Labour government would end exploitative zero-hours contracts and create new collective bargaining rights. On top of this, Corbyn would put action against undercutting of pay and conditions through the exploitation of migrant labour at the centre of the Brexit negotiations. A third pledge on the NHS will be to “end health service privatisation and bring services into a secure, publicly provided NHS”. The debate between the leadership candidates comes after Smith said it was likely that the party could split or even “bust apart and disappear” if Corbyn wins. In response, McDonnell accused Smith of attempting to blackmail Corbyn voters into supporting his campaign, and dismissed the claim as the “wrong tactic in a leadership election”. He described the message coming across from some of Smith’s friends as a threat and said he did not think that was acceptable. The shadow chancellor also denied that he told Smith “if that’s what it takes” when warned that Labour was in danger of splitting. “I don’t think I did say that. I don’t recall that,” said McDonnell. McDonnell told Sky News: “We shouldn’t be going into a leadership election saying, ‘Vote for me or some of my supporters will split the party’. People don’t want to be blackmailed in that way. That’s not right.  “Owen Smith could kill this off altogether by saying, whatever the result of the election, if Jeremy Corbyn does get re-elected he will serve under Jeremy Corbyn, and saying to his supporters who are talking up this split to stop it immediately, and let’s work together.”  Asked why he did not want Smith as leader, McDonnell said: “Owen is a great guy, I like him a lot. He is one of the most ambitious career politicians I have met. I think we have moved on from that style of politics. The style of politics people want and that attracts them to Jeremy Corbyn is, ‘what you see is what you get – principled, honest, straightforward’.”  Meanwhile, the decision to bar Labour members who joined after 12 January from voting in the election is being challenged in the high court, in a crowdfunded case brought by some of the estimated 130,000 people who have been excluded. 