 In March, when Austrian architects announced they were going to build an 84-metre skyscraper out of wood, there were mutterings about whether this was the right material for the job. The reservations were not about its strength, but that the material doesn’t embody modernity, and so these wooden skyscrapers might seem anachronistic. Wood suffered this bias throughout the 20th century as new materials such as metal alloys and carbon fibre composites offered not just better properties but something even more alluring: newness itself. The story of how wood regained its edge encompasses the development of aircraft, modernist furniture and digital fabrication. Wood is a porous material comprised of cellulose fibres that give it strength and stiffness, and lignin polymer that effectively glues these fibres together. The density and arrangement of the fibres gives wood its grain, which is determined not just by the biology of trees but also by their growth environment. Thus the grain varies from species to species and from tree to tree. The upshot is that, like us, each piece of wood has an individual character, which is one of the reasons we love it so much. Wood is strong across the grain but has a tendency to crack along it. This is useful if you are splitting logs for a fire, but if you are building a house, a chair, a violin or pretty much anything out of wood it presents a design problem. The thinner the piece, the more cracking is an issue, which is why solid wooden furniture can be quite bulky and heavy. Counter-intuitively, the answer to this problem is to make very thin wafers of wood called veneer. Veneer has been used for centuries to cover furniture to give it an attractive surface. In the 19th century, furniture-makers developed an ancient idea of rebuilding a piece of wood by sticking veneer together, so each layer was perpendicular to the next. This allowed them to make an artificial piece of wood without a weak direction; it was called plywood. Plywood was a great idea but it was ahead of its time. The first problem was the glues, which needed to be able to accommodate the expansion of the wood when temperature and humidity changed. At first the glues were inadequate and so early plywood was unreliable and fell apart. Secondly, while the great potential of this artificial wood was to create curved shapes and thin structures that couldn’t be carved from a single piece of timber, this would need to wait for machines and moulding techniques that could apply high pressure to hold the ply in place while the glue set. Finally, a cheap way to produce veneer was needed. This had to wait for the invention of the powered rotary lathe, a truly marvellous machine that takes a whole tree trunk and peels it in one continuous cut to produce sheets of veneer tens of metres long. It took a while for all these requirements to fall into place and they needed to be driven by some strong market pull. The development of the aircraft industry in the early 20th century provided just this. It needed a material that was light, stiff, strong and mouldable into complex shapes – plywood made from balsa and birch fits the bill. The most famous plywood plane was the de Havilland Mosquito bomber. When it was introduced in the second world war it was the fastest aircraft in the sky and was not fitted with defensive guns as it could outrun any other plane. It remains to this day a design classic and is perhaps the most beautiful plywood object ever made. In the end, plywood lost out in the aircraft industry to the new wonder metal, aluminium, but its potential lived on in the minds of designers, particularly Charles and Ray Eames, who used plywood to reimagine wooden furniture and create classic designs such as the Eames chair. Their chairs are still made and imitated today; go into any cafe or classroom and you are likely to see them because, although fashions in furniture have come and gone, plywood has retained its appeal, as a reliable and tough, mouldable, elegant and sensuous material. The popularity of plywood led to standardisation in the size and thickness of sheets of the material suitable for cutting and joining together. Although dull, this turned out to have important consequences. With the birth of affordable programmable cutting machines, the confluence of two technologies has made possible a new type of model for furniture making, called re-distributed manufacture. The information to make a table can be coded digitally and sent anywhere in the world where digital fabrication facilities and standard plywood can be found. The table can then be made locally to suit individual needs because the designs can be easily modified digitally. This approach promises to change not just how furniture, but also houses, are designed and made. The WikiHouse project is one example that seeks to make the plans available for anyone to build their own house, once they have access to a source of plywood, digital fabrication facilities and time to learn a few skills. The new generation of wooden skyscrapers are also designed on this premise, which is that the economies of scale of the production of plywood and ease of customisation due to digital technologies make wooden structural design attractive. Whether or not such plyscrapers, WikiHouses or digitally customised furniture come to a city near you, one thing is clear: plywood is the very epitome of a modern material. 