Steve Rose 
 A sideways move from Sideways takes Payne on another tour of masculine crises, though this has mellowed and matured for longer. Family issues jolt Clooney out of his Hawaiian comfort zone. His wife's sudden coma puts him in charge of their two daughters, and brings their marriage into perspective, while his control of the ancestral estate adds to the burden. It's a well-rooted drama of great performances and big themes (and probably big awards). Young love sees no colour, but it must abide by visa regulations in this cross-Atlantic romantic saga, which tests a couple's endurance in an offbeat, indie style. Liam Neeson v wolves – seems like a good match. There's "character development" to break up the lupine action, though, as plane-crash survivors cope with their Alaskan version of Deliverance. This feverishly languid but slyly perceptive movie threatens to give "erotic drama" a good name, as inmates of a Parisian bordello cope with their clientele and the looming 20th century. The monster is a giant flea, and the Paris is the 19th-century variety – backdrop for a kids' romp strong on music and visuals but weaker in story and humour. Less a straight horror movie than a dark mystery, drawing together why kids in London and Madrid are having the same spooky nightmare. Documentary response to WG Sebald's expansive novel The Rings Of Saturn, recreating his Suffolk walks and blending his prose with landscape imagery. Callow toys with human foibles at a country retreat in this Brit farce, told in rhyming couplets. Shakespeare it ain't. The A-Team meets the Z-list in this cheap Balkan shoot-'em-up. Remake of a 1990s Amitabh Bachchan hit concerning a man who seeks to avenge his father's death. As the title suggests, much gets lost in translation in this knockabout Chinese New Year comedy. Young Adult Charlize Theron seeks to rewind to her teen glory years in Jason Reitman's bitter comedy. Chronicle Teens get more superpowers than they can handle in this intriguing new sci-fi. Out from Wed Martha Marcy May Marlene Elizabeth Olsen plays a damaged escapee from a modern-day cult. Carnage  Kate Winslet heads an all-star cast in Polanski's single-apartment comedy of manners. Man On A Ledge Framed cop Sam Worthington takes a high-rise gamble to clear his name. Bombay Beach  Artful documentary on a decaying California desert community. Best Laid Plans Brit crime thriller mixing cage fighting and John Steinbeck, allegedly. Jack And Jill Two nauseating Adam Sandlers for the price of one in this twins comedy. Journey 2: The Mysterious Island Michael Caine and Dwayne Johnson in a fantasy action sequel. In two weeks … It's time to raise the curtain on The Muppets … Freud, Jung and Keira Knightley in Cronenberg's A Dangerous Method … In three weeks … Spies fight over Reese Witherspoon in This Means War … Kristin Scott Thomas in thriller The Woman In The Fifth … In a month … Seniors Judi Dench and Maggie Smith check in to The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel … 