 Great Britain's hopes of making a swift return to the Davis Cup's top table rest on a home tie against Ukraine next year. John Lloyd's team, who were relegated from the World Group at the weekend following a 3-2 loss to Austria, will face the 41st-ranked Ukrainians in a second round Europe/Africa Zone Group 1 tie on May 8-10, with the prize a September promotion play-off. The Ukraine team includes Sergei Bubka, the 6ft 4in son of history's greatest pole vaulter, but — on paper, at least — victory should not be too tall an order for Lloyd's charges. Three previous Davis Cup encounters between the two nations have all gone Britain's way, and Andy Murray will doubtless relish the opportunity of locking horns anew with world No83 Sergiy Stakhovsky, the player he beat in the final of the US Open junior event four years ago. "This is definitely a match we are capable of winning," said Lloyd. "Stakhovsky is a good young player who is on the up and can play well on any surface, but I think this is a good draw for us. Now it's time for us to do a bit of research on what is the best surface for the players. I'll spend some time studying the results of their players over the last year and start thinking about where we're going to play. We beat them last time when we had to travel away so I'm confident that we will be able to do it again."  For all Lloyd's optimism, much will hinge on Murray's continued commitment to the British cause. The Scot was openly critical of his team-mates in the wake of the Austria defeat, questioning their desire and failure to make the most of home advantage. Murray's presence could be decisive against Ukraine, a nation with only one top-200 player in their ranks, but he remarked after Alex Bogdanovic's capitulation in last Sunday's decisive rubber: "If I finish playing a Davis Cup tie and I don't feel the whole team is desperate to win and will give everything they can to win the tie, then that's what will demotivate me." One factor that would almost certainly deter Murray is a failure to rearrange the tie, which is scheduled to begin just 17 days before the French Open. As a seeded nation Britain were given a first-round bye in today's draw, raising the possibility that — subject to the agreement of both nations — the clash could be brought forward to March 6-8, when the opening Europe/Africa Zone Group I matches are scheduled to take place. 