 Matt Prior and Eoin Morgan joined tributes to Matthew Hobden after Sussex announced the death of the 22-year-old fast bowler, whom the club described as a “fantastic individual”. “Thoughts & prayers with all of Matt Hobden’s family at this tragic time,” Prior wrote on Twitter. “A great guy with a huge future taken far too soon.” The former Sussex and England wicketkeeper added: “One of those days when u get a call that puts perspective on things. Live life and love everyday as much as you can! So sad! RIPhobsy.” Hobden was one of six pacemen chosen to take part in the Potential England Performance Programme this winter. The group of bowlers were due to spend time in Johannesburg alongside the senior England side, helping with preparations for the one-day international series against South Africa. Hobden had two first-class five-wicket hauls on his career record. Morgan, the England one-day captain, said: “Thoughts and prayers are with Matt Hobden’s family and friends at this extremely difficult time.” The Professional Cricketers’ Association said: “PCA are deeply saddened to learn of the death of Matt Hobden. Our thoughts and condolences with Matt’s family, friends and colleagues” Hobden was making his way in professional cricket and had a rocky spell with the ball early last season, bowling a host of no-balls in a match against Middlesex. That prompted Sussex’s then captain Ed Joyce to come to his defence and predict he would become a major asset to the team. Joyce said in The Argus newspaper in May: “We really want him to be a luxury bowler who is able to run in and bowl fast and if he is not getting a spell right we can take him off and bring someone else on. I think Matt will be a fantastic cricketer for Sussex in the future but he is still young and learning his trade at the moment.” On learning of Hobden’s death, Joyce said: “In shock. Can’t get my head around the news. RIP Matt Hobden. Thoughts with his family riphobsy.” News of his death was felt far beyond Sussex. Paul Collingwood, Durham’s former England one-day captain, wrote on Twitter: “So saddened to hear about the death of Matt Hobden, an extremely talented young cricketer at Sussex. All our thoughts are with his family.” Collingwood’s Durham team-mate – and England international – Graham Onions added: “Heartbreaking news about Matt Hobden. Thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends RIPhobsy.” Hobden studied in Cardiff before focusing on cricket, playing frequent first-class and limited-overs matches for Sussex over the past two seasons. Sussex said in a statement: “Sussex Cricket is deeply shocked and saddened to hear of the passing of Matthew Hobden. Matthew was an exciting young cricketer with a big future ahead of him in the game. He was a fantastic individual who had progressed through Sussex’s youth and academy ranks, having been born locally in Eastbourne. “He made his first-class debut for Sussex in 2014 and had represented the county across all three formats over the past two seasons. He will be greatly missed. Sussex would like to offer their deepest condolences to Matthew’s family and friends at this difficult time. “Players and staff will be offered as much support as is possible and we would like both Matthew’s family, and everyone connected with Sussex Cricket, to be respected with privacy at this time.”  