 Serena Williams, whose latest self-promotion includes sartorial comparisons with Wonder Woman, has a chance of sisterly revenge when she plays her first final in her first tournament since winning Wimbledon nine months ago. The former world No1 takes on Elena Dementieva, the quarter-final conqueror of her elder sister Venus, in a United States versus Russia showdown at the Nasdaq-100 Open today. Dementieva, now coached by the former Wimbledon finalist Olga Morozova, reached the biggest final of her career by overcoming Nadia Petrova 6-4, 6-2 in the early hours of yesterday morning - only the third time in nine meetings she had beaten her fellow Muscovite.  The 22-year-old's boldly struck ground strokes had been superior to everyone's over the past week, and her semi-final success against the fleet-footed daughter of an Olympic 400 metres bronze medallist hinged on keeping her modest service out of trouble.  Achieving this again should be particularly problematic against Williams's thumping returns, though Dementieva had a different view. "It's gonna be too slow for her," she claimed. "She's gonna play three metres south from my second serve."  Williams reached the final with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Eleni Daniilidou, the former top-20 player from Greece.  Andy Roddick, meanwhile, admitted he was lucky after battling back to beat Carlos Moya and book his semi-final place in the men's event. The No2 seed was two points from crashing out when the Spaniard double-faulted at 30-all and while leading 5-4, in the third set.  Roddick saved a break point in the following game and then clinched a 5-7, 6-2, 7-5 win on his first match point. "He was the better player pretty much all day," Roddick said. "Lucky for me, I just think he got a little tight at the end. He gave me a gift of a game when he was serving for it at 5-4. I would love to sit here and claim all credit for it but that's not really the case."  Roddick next meets a fellow American, Vince Spadea, who cruised through with a 7-5, 6-1 win over Argentina's Agustin Calleri. 