 Preamble: Ricky Ponting and Mike Hussey resume this evening on 185-3, having clawed Australia back from the precipice of 65-3. England need a quick wicket or two or three to really capitalise on the excellent batting of Messrs Collingwood and Pietersen. 64th over: Australia 188-3 (Ponting 103, Hussey 50) Jimmy Anderson takes the ball immediately after tea, and Mike Hussey whacks him away to bring up his half-century, his sixth in Test cricket. 65th over: Australia 191-3 (Ponting 105, Hussey 51) The King of Spain is pitching outside leg, the final ball of the six goes through cover for two, and that's about all there is to say about that. Mike Atherton would have picked Monty Panesar over Ashley Giles, in case you're interested. And he would have found a seamer to bat at No 8. 66th over: Australia 195-3 (Ponting 105, Hussey 55) Mike Hussey plays Anderson's wide ball away through cover to the boundary. Is it too early to say this is going to be a draw? 67th over: Australia 199-3 (Ponting 106, Hussey 58) This really isn't very good. Ponting puts his partner on strike by galloping down the wicket and smartly playing away to mid-off, and then Hussey gobbles up Giles' short ball, sweeping away for three. 68th over: Australia 205-3 (Ponting 107, Hussey 63) 200 up for the Aussies as Hussey smacks Anderson away for four. Again. 69th over: Australia 207-3 (Ponting 108, Hussey 64) Giles, bowling over the wicket, trying to frustrate the batsmen with negativity. Ringing any bells? Jason Conduct's is the only email received in about an hour, so even though I have no idea what he's talking about, I'll use it: "I find my mind wandering back and forth between the need of a wicket and the film Grizzly Man. Anyone seen it? Care to comment?" 70th over: Australia 207-3 (Ponting 108, Hussey 64) Anderson. Maiden. Email from Andy McEwen about spinners that I'd like to pick apart in great detail, but as I'm rapidly losing the ability to keep my poor grainy eyes open, coherent debate may be beyond me. Here's his last paragraph, though: "If I concede 'Monty' is at least a better name than "King of Spain", can we all now move on and drop the issue? (I'll leave a space here for a gag about dropped catch.)" 71st over: Australia 213-3 (Ponting 109, Hussey 69) Bowling Ashley Giles does appear to be a total waste of time. 72nd over: Australia 222-3 (Ponting 117, Hussey 70) A hideous over from Jimmy Anderson - Ricky Ponting is delighted to take advantage of a short one, driving it away past the deep fielders to the rope. Martin Myers is bleary-eyed: "I was torn between staying up to read about some early wickets tumbling, or getting up early to read us whipping through the tail. I picked the latter, which shows my decision-making is up there with Duncan Fletcher's this Test." 73rd over: Australia 228-3 (Ponting 123, Hussey 70) Kevin Pietersen's brought into the attack, and though it's a reasonably expensive over, there's the first piece of possible wicket-taking drama in what seems like hours. However, expletives emanate from the GU team as the third umpire rules that Mike Hussey is not out. It was referred to a TV replay after good fielding from Jimmy Anderson and Jones the wicket-keeper. Alex Gaywood wants to know: "Is anyone else suffering from Ashes dream syndrome? You know when you keep waking up and checking the scores on teletext which then influences your dreams, then you can't tell what's real? Still, it was nice of the Aussies to let Simon Jones bowl as he wasn't in the original England line up, especially when he got Ponting lbw with his first ball." 74th over: Australia 232-3 (Ponting 127, Hussey 70) Ricky Ponting smashes another Anderson short one away to the boundary, again through the couple of deep fielders. Mark Armitage wonders if "there's a chance of the old advert making a return? Ashley Giles walks into Duncan Fletcher's office, carrying a DVD of his best performances. Fletcher sits back and watches. Finally, he delivers his verdict. 'You can't catch. You can't bowl spin. You bat only adequately. You'll go a long way.'" Harsh, Mr Armitage. 75th over: Australia 235-3 (Ponting 128, Hussey 72) Three singles from Pietersen's over. Don't worry. The new ball's available soon. Let's pin our hopes on that. Poor old Gilo, the whipping boy for grumpy and sleep-deprived OBOers: "Could someone please tell me what the point of techno music is?" asks Daniel Marks. "My neighbour is intent on playing it full blast at all times of the day and night. Surely he can't be in a drug-induced state 24 hours a day and I've never heard of anyone enjoying it when not under the influence of something illegal. Techno music - as pointless as Ashley Giles and this e-mail." 76th over: Australia 238-3 (Ponting 130, Hussey 73) "Re 75th over comment - what's the difference between Ashley Giles and a neighbour playing techno music full blast?" I don't know, Mark Armitage, what's the difference between Ashley Giles and a neighbour playing techno music full blast? "The neighbour would have a chance of getting me out." Giles doesn't look like getting Ponting or Hussey out either. 77th over: Australia 241-3 (Ponting 132, Hussey 74) If this was a football match, I'd be hissing through my teeth, "Ssssssssssh!" now. 78th over: Australia 241-3 (Ponting 132, Hussey 74) A maiden for Ashley Giles, and Andrew Flintoff rouses himself from his comfortable vantage point on the balcony to get back out on the field. 79th over: Australia 242-3 (Ponting 133, Hussey 74) A bit of an appeal from Kevin Pietersen as his delivery strikes Hussey on the front pad, but there's absolutely no chance of umpire Bucknor giving that. Time for a drinks break. 80th over: Australia 243-3 (Ponting 134, Hussey 74) One run for Ricky Ponting off Ashley Giles. Where is the new ball? Ian Stalvies sniggers: "Just saw a great book on sale here in Sydney - 'Leadership the Sven-Goran Eriksson way: How to turn your team into winners.' Think that'll be in the Christmas stocking for Duncan Fletcher and the lads? Lucky there's no quarter-final in a five-Test series..." 81st over: Australia 249-3 (Ponting 139, Hussey 75) Ricky Ponting finishes off an otherwise decent Pietersen over by driving through cover for another boundary. The end of the day is nigh, campers. Don't know if I've mentioned it, but THE NEW BALL IS DUE. 82nd over: Australia 253-3 (Ponting 141, Hussey 77) Four singles off Giles's last over of the day, because the new ball is being taken. I can barely contain my excitement. Unsurprisingly, the Hog's the first in the queue for new ball duties. WICKET! 83rd over: Australia 257-4 (Ponting 142, c Jones b Hoggard) There you go! The Hog is a genius. I told you so. Ponting edges behind to Jones, and is now removing himself from my line of vision. And then weirdly, Andrew Harrison has sent the following e-mail: "Someone reassure me, please, that there's no chance of the following happening. These two bat until lunch tomorrow, then Gilchrist finding his form to hit a quick ton off tiring bowlers to give the Aussies a first innings lead, followed by a dramatic England collapse as Warne and McGrath get their magic back. England lose by, say, eight wickets.I'm being ludicrously negative, aren't I? Hopefully Ponting has got out while I was writing this." Well, what do you know? 84th over: Australia 263-4 (Hussey 80, Clarke 5) New man Michael Clarke gets under way quickly, driving Flintoff through midwicket for four. Daniel Marks casts aspersions on Ricky Ponting's sportsmanship: "Did anyone else think Ponting stood his ground there having got the thickest edge ever? Not too sure why he was waiting for the finger to go up - maybe he was just as surprised as the bowlers that someone got him out." David Gower suspects that Punter is a very angry man. Shocking. 85th over: Australia 268-4 (Hussey 81, Clarke 10) Another boundary for Clarke, this time playing the majestic Hog through extra cover. Allan Wilson suggests: "How about this? Take a couple more quick wickets tonight, then finish them off tomorrow morning, enforce the follow-on, skittle them out for 250 again then win by ten wickets to bring the series level." Sounds very good to me. 86th over: Australia 270-4 (Hussey 82, Clarke 11) A single each off Flintoff. One more wicket before the close would make me very happy. Devika Pande predicts: "The key to winning against the Aussies is getting Ponting. Now that he's gone, the Aussies will, most likely, collapse. England will get a 150-run lead and Giles will spin his country to a win - and thus continue bowling forever." 87th over: Australia 272-4 (Hussey 84, Clarke 11) Mike Atherton and Ian Botham are mulling over the agedness of the Aussie side, but Beefy's suddenly got fed up with the subject, dismissing it with a terse: "Well, it's not our problem, it's their problem." Phil Hucknall demands: "Just wondering if anyone's mentioned why Harmison hasn't had a bowl all evening? I thought he was just finding some form, and clearly Flintoff wasn't saving him for the new ball. He'd surely have been a better bet than Gilo, wouldn't he? And what's the point in delaying the new ball for two overs? Should I really just stop complaining and thank the Lord for Hog?" In order - no, possibly but maybe not with the old ball, no idea, and yes, you certainly should. 88th over: Australia 276-4 (Hussey 84, Clarke 15) Clarke gets the third four of his innings, driving Flintoff away. As the sun goes down in Adelaide, the rain is lashing down in a pitch-black Farringdon, where there is a small gale whistling through the GU Towers windows. There's around ten minutes left scheduled in this session. 89th over: Australia 281-4 (Hussey 87, Clarke 16) Smart fielding from captain Flintoff restricts Hussey to edging three runs closer to his ton rather than four, after playing back past Hoggard. Steve Harmison's limbering up for one last spell of the day. 90th over: Australia 285-4 (Hussey 91, Clarke 16) A lovely cover drive from Hussey gets him another four runs, but other than that he gets no more joy from Harmison. The Aussies still trail by 266 runs, y'know. WICKET! 91st over: Australia 286-5 (Hussey 91, b Hoggard) I have just scared myself with an extremely loud cheer and a thump on the desk. A major misjudgement from Mike Hussey, nine runs short of his century, and the brilliant Hog takes out his off-stump. A fabulous day's work from him. Did someone say "net bowler"? 92nd over: Australia 290-5 (Clarke 19, Gilchrist 2) Flintoff's brought himself on to bowl at the out-of-form Gilchrist. No joy, though, as he runs a single and puts Clarke back on strike. And bless David Lloyd. "Mikey, hasn't Matthew Hoggard been excellent today?" Mr Holding concurs: "Brilliant." There are supposed to be seven more overs in today's play. 93rd over: Australia 295-5 (Clarke 23, Gilchrist 3) Ooh! Hoggard's delivery to Clarke is edged behind, but just past the stretched-out fingertips of Geraint Jones, and races away to the rope for four. 94th over: Australia 301-5 (Clarke 23, Gilchrist 9) We're treated to a montage of Andrew Flintoff destroying Adam Gilchrist four times in last year's Ashes. As yet, no repeat. Indeed, the batsman adds another six to his tally here, with a boundary and a brace, which also brings up the triple century. 95th over: Australia 305-5 (Clarke 27, Gilchrist 9) Andrew Flintoff is being very athletic in the field today, and saves Clarke's shot down leg-side from reaching the boundary. Tough cheese, though, because the batsmen have run four anyway. 96th over: Australia 308-5 (Clarke 27, Gilchrist 12) Gilchrist places his shot through mid-off, and scampers three runs. The crowd are beginning to leave the Adelaide Oval just as a rowdy element of onlookers start a vaguely obscene chant. Matthew Hoggard will conclude the bowling for today. 97th over: Australia 312-5 (Clarke 30, Gilchrist 13) That's it for the day, and a rather successful day at the office for Ricky Ponting, Mike Hussey and Matthew Hoggard. This Test is intriguingly poised now. A quick wicket or two on day four, and who knows? Thanks for all your e-mails. See you again soon. Carrie. 