 Tim Henman's partnership with new coach Larry Stefanki got off to a winning start as he beat Thailand's Paradom Srichaphan in the first round of the Masters Series event in Montreal.   But there was less good news for Greg Rusedski, who crashed out in three sets to Carlos Moya.  Henman's play during his 6-3, 6-3 triumph over Srichaphan was scrappy and not completely convincing. But he did enough to earn a place against Michael Llodra or Albert Costa in the second round.   "I don't think it was the best match either of us have played, but from my point of view, I was able to find a way to get the breaks and keep my nose in front," Henman admitted.   But he had more encouraging words about his new coach Stefanki, who has previously coached John McEnroe, Marcelo Rios and Yevgeny Kafelnikov.   "Larry came to London last week and then obviously travelled over here and I am pleased with the way things are going," said Henman.   "It's obviously still early days and I am realistic that it's not suddenly going to change overnight, but I am happy with the way things are progressing.   "He has a great deal of experience with the players he has worked with and the time that he's been around the game and hopefully I can benefit from that."  Rusedski, booed off the court the last time be played the event in 1995, fell 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 to 14th-seeded Carlos Moya of Spain.   "I think people just moved on," said Rusedski, who drew some cheers as he battled back after dropping the opening set. "It's been six years. Time heals things. I just tried to play good tennis and they got an entertaining match, so it was positive."   "It was a good win for me, because I have never beaten him before on a fast surface and this is a really fast surface," said Moya.   "I think I had some good returns and that puts some pressure on when you serve and you see your opponent is returning pretty well."  Defending champion Marat Safin of Russia, seeded second, retired in the second set of his match against France's Nicolas Escude because of a knee injury. Safin, who was down 4-6, 2-5, was jeered by the crowd as he left the court.   "I don't think the way they treated me was right," Safin said. "This is the first time this has happened to me and people are whistling at me. There are some guys who retire all the time. I give everything for the spectators and now I can't play and they're whistling at me. I don't think they're right."   In the night session, fifth-seeded Lleyton Hewitt of Australia beat Canada's Simon Larose 6-0, 5-7, 6-3, and ninth-seeded Pat Rafter of Australia edged Israel's Harel Levy 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-3.   "I'm finding it hard to pick up the intensity," admitted Rafter. "I'm hitting the ball well, but I've got to get my mind back into it. If I do, I think I'll have a good tournament." 