 Marion Bartoli's 1-6, 7-5, 6-1 defeat of Justine Henin yesterday represents one of the biggest surprises in Wimbledon history, not only because an unorthodox unknown beat the woman who had been clear favourite to complete a full set of four grand slams but also because of the unbelievable way in which it was achieved. Shortly after losing the first set the 22-year-old Frenchwoman was standing at 129-1 with the bookmakers. Yet from 4-3 down in the second set she dominated the match so completely that she often had Henin running all over the court, trying to do no more than hang on against the rank outsider. Bartoli made a joke of it. "I didn't start well. I was so stressed being for the first time on Centre Court," she said. "It was hard for me. Then I saw Pierce Brosnan, who is one of my favourite actors, in the crowd, so I thought it would be good to play a little tennis." There were of course more logical reasons for her win, to which she preferred not to draw attention. For one thing, her awkward style, based on Monica Seles's double-handers on both wings, has the capacity to be disconcerting at any time because it is so rare. Henin had problems with the wind and with a few uncertain bounces, and in the third set she frequently decided to defend. This is a dangerous thing against a style specifically constructed for attack and uniquely capable of combining pace with disguise. It also eliminated the main ways of exploiting Bartoli's weakness - her relatively limited mobility. But Henin will admit that she has never completely got rid of a slight mistrust of grass, the only surface on which she has not won a grand slam title. "It's such a strange surface. You have to be very intense on every point," she said before the match. Bartoli's style, by contrast, can work well amid uncertainties, whether of wind or of bounce, for her short backswing makes last-moment adjustments less difficult. She was also very self-possessed, standing in early to attack Henin's serve - a legacy, she claims, of starting out playing at multi-sports centres with little run-back space - and directing a greater ratio of attacks to Henin's forehand. She was rewarded with plenty of mistakes. Henin, who won the French Open four weeks ago and Eastbourne two weeks later, said her win over Serena Williams in the previous round had been physically and emotionally draining. Yesterday she looked tired and, increasingly, as if she was in shock. At Eastbourne she had beaten Bartoli for the loss of only four games. "I don't understand what happened," she said. "She did a good job but I didn't take my chances and I will have to go away and work out what happened." The third game of the final set was crucial. Henin had two break points but after she failed to take them she was 3-0 down with her opponent accelerating into a higher gear. "It was hard," Bartoli said. "It was very windy. I tried to focus on the ball and forget who I was playing, where I was playing and when I was playing." She finished the match with a battery of brilliantly placed winners and a celebration muted enough to suggest she was already mindful that she had to play a final. She squealed briefly, squatted with her fists before her face, and unsmilingly waved to the crowd. She smiled a little towards her father, Walter, who had helped her adopt the Seles style and to whom she afterwards gave credit. "We have been working together from the first time I hit a ball 16 years ago and he has been my only coach," said the woman from Le Puy en Velay who is now based in Geneva. "We did it together. He is a very good doctor, a good tennis coach and a very good father." Bartoli acknowledged that the scale of the upset was too much for her to take in so soon, as it will be for most people. In 20 grand slam tournaments she had never previously gone beyond a third round, and this year she had had four first-round defeats and six in the second round in all competitions. Yet yesterday she overcame the player whom most people regard as the most complete by far, whom John McEnroe called the "female Federer" and who since the demise here of Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova and Amélie Mauresmo had fallen to very short odds to capture the only grand slam title to elude her. How did Bartoli feel about reaching her first grand slam final? "I can't realise it right now," she said. "I am so excited to be in the final. "It's like a dream come true. If you told me that it would happen before the tournament I would not have trusted you. I just hope, Pierce, that you will come back tomorrow - that would be good." More importantly, against Venus Williams she will again need to forget where, when and against whom she is playing. Final head-to-head Marion Bartoli  France Age 22 Career prize money $1.56m Born Le Puy en Velay, France Seeded 18 Grand slam singles titles 0  Venus Williams  US Age 27 Career prize money $16.5m Born Lynwood, California Seeded 23 Grand slam singles titles 5 (Wimbledon 2000, 2001, 2005; US Open 2000, 2001) 