 Andy Murray survived a scare by coming from a set and a break down against the unseeded Sergiy Stakhovsky to progress to the second round of the Dubai Tennis Championships. Four-and-a-half years after he beat the Ukrainian to win the US Open boys' title, the second seed looked like he might be heading for an early exit, yet Stakhovsky, who needed lengthy treatment for an injury to his ankle in the first set, retired a game from defeat, as Murray led 6-7 (3-7), 6-3, 5-3. Murray himself had appeared to be struggling with an ankle injury of his own late in the contest, but he was still able to grind out the win in two hours and two minutes. He was quick to gain the ascendancy, bringing up three break points in the third game and taking the second of them when his opponent put a backhand into the net. The Scot had two more break points in game five for a 4-1 lead as he looked like racing away with the set, but Stakhovsky saved both and then broke back to level at 3-3, but the Ukrainian was not on level terms for long as the British No1 broke straight back, but he was made to pay for his carelessness as he again dropped his serve. Stakhovsky, on break point, worked his opponent from one side of the court to the other before cracking a forehand winner to make it 4-4. There was a lengthy delay in the ninth game as Stakhovsky had to have his ankle iced and heavily strapped after appearing to turn it. He returned to the court 40-15 up, winning the next point to end a run of three successive breaks of serve and go 5-4 ahead, and proved just as strong in the tie-break to take it 7-3. Worse was to come for a clearly frustrated Murray as he dropped his serve in the opening game of the second set, but he kept his emotions under control to earn an instant break back. Three more games followed in a row for Murray as he moved up a gear to establish a 4-1 lead on the way to taking the set. Murray, however, was hobbling when he went back to his chair, his ankle causing him pain. Yet the knock did not stop him from breaking in the opening game of the deciding set, Stakhovsky gifting him the game by pulling a forehand wide, a game which proved decisive as the Ukrainian threw in the towel at 5-3 down. Murray will now face either Rainer Schuettler or Arnaud Clement, who play tomorrow afternoon, in the second round. 