 The No1 seed, Serena Williams, and the second seed, Dinara Safina, made short work of their second-round opponents to move into the Sydney International quarter-finals. Williams, who was stretched to three sets and saved four match points in her opening match against Australia's Samantha Stosur, beat Sara Errani of Italy 6-1, 6-2 in 50 minutes on Tuesday. Her victory at Ken Rosewall Arena came moments after Safina finished off a 6-3, 6-0 win over her Russian compatriot Vera Dushevina in just over an hour at the Olympic Park Tennis Centre. Errani was in trouble from the start, challenging two line calls within eight minutes during the first set – and both went against her. Errani consulted with her coach after losing a third straight game and although she rallied at the beginning of the second set, the Italian seemed to lose her focus. Williams said she had felt much more comfortable with her game. "I still think I can improve on some things, and that's what I want to do," she said. "I don't want to peak too soon. I just want to stay level for the whole season." Four other seeded players in the women's draw at the joint ATP-WTA tournament also qualified for the quarter-final stage on Tuesday. Russia's No3 seed Elena Dementieva beat Jarmila Gajdosova of Slovakia 6-2, 6-4 and Svetlana Kuznetsova, the No5 seed, beat Estonia's Kaia Kanepi 6-2, 2-6, 7-6. The sixth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland defeated Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova 6-3, 7-5 and Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark, the No8 seed, beat Britain's Melanie South 6-2, 6-0, and will face Williams in her next match. "Last I checked she was No12," said Williams. "She's probably even better now. It'll be a good match for me going into the Australian Open, and also for her as well." In the other match, Japan's Ai Sugiyama beat Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain 2-6, 6-1, 6-2. In the first round of the men's draw, Janko Tipsarevic, cheered on by dozens of boisterous, flag-waving Serbian fans, defeated eighth-seeded Mardy Fish 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. The Australian Chris Guccione used his home town crowd to his advantage to beat the No 6 seed Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-4. The former world No1 Lleyton Hewitt of Australia continued his comeback from a five-month injury layoff to beat France's Julien Benneteau 5-7, 6-2, 6-4 and Paul-Henri Mathieu of France beat Italian Andreas Seppi 6-2, 2-6, 6-3. Hewitt, who plays Tipsarevic in the next round, has won the Sydney title four times and had a 20-match winning streak at the 2000 Olympic venue. The win maintained Hewitt's record of never having lost a first-round match in 19 tournaments in Australia. "It was always going to be tough in the first sort of tournament match back for a while," said Hewitt, who had hip surgery in August. "It's not easy to come out in match situations and just pick it up straightaway, doesn't matter how good you are. It's a matter of getting that confidence." The top four men's seeds – Novak Djokovic, Gilles Simon, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and David Nalbandian – received first-round byes. Djokovic, who begins the defence of his Australian Open title next week in Melbourne, plays Mathieu on Wednesday. 