 Andy Murray departed last night with a second title of the year in the bag and the satisfaction that his decision to miss the Davis Cup tie in Argentina had at least benefited his career. The British No1 followed up his near-perfect performance in the semi-final against Paul-Henri Mathieu of France with an excellent display to quell the big game of Mario Ancic 6-3, 6-4 and take his career tally of titles to five, restoring him to the world's top 10. At the age of 20, it is good going and more evidence that Murray has the game and fighting spirit that has already prompted many, including Ancic, to say that the Scot would already have been in the top five had it not been for the wrist injury that kept him out for three months last year. Murray said of his choice to stay at home rather than join his team-mates in Buenos Aires: "I know it was the right decision and I think it proved it by winning the tournament." Ancic had been a revelation all week. Having not played any of the past four grand slam events because of glandular fever, then injury and finally a stomach sickness, the Croat needed a wild card to get into the event. He repaid the faith of the tournament director when he beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, the only man to beat Murray so far this year, in the first round, and then stormed to the final without dropping his serve, but unfortunately for him, Murray's returns, the best part of his game, were at their sharpest. The 23-year-old saved four break points to make it 3-3 but when he forced a break point of his own, in the next game, he netted a volley that would have put him ahead. Murray held, became the first to break the Ancic serve in the next game and then survived a mammoth ninth game to take the set on his fifth set point. Had Ancic broken back and perhaps taken the set, Murray said, then the match could have been very different. "It was a really long game and I think I had five or six game points and he had four or five break points," Murray said. "That game was really important mentally, because if he'd got back into it, maybe won the set, it would have been tough for me but I stuck with it. I served really well on the big points and did a really good job of serving it out at the end." Ancic did actually break to lead 3-1 in the second set but that proved to be only a minor blip for Murray as he reeled off five of the next six games to add the Marseille title to the one he won in Doha at the start of the year. "It's great," said Murray, who is set to move up from his ranking of No 11 today. "To have the confidence of having won two tournaments and beating some really tough players indoors and in Doha. I think obviously a lot was made of me not doing well in the Australian Open but I have come back well from it and confidence is high, so that can only help." But he conceded it was major titles that he craved over his ranking. "For me winning grand slams is more important than being No1. But if you are winning grand slams obviously you are pretty close to No1 anyway. For me, I've always set goals for each year. First the top 100, then the top 20. then the top 10. Now it is a grand slam. If I can do that in the next couple of years then I'll be going for No1." Ever the perfectionist, Murray admitted there was a part of his game that had not been up to its usual standard in the final. "I missed a lot of backhands in the net which I don't normally miss," he said. In truth, Ancic played a great match and on this kind of form could be a real threat at Wimbledon, where he was the last man to beat Roger Federer there, providing he remains fit and healthy. "If someone had told me that I would lose in the first round but stay healthy, I would have signed for it," Ancic said. "So to get to the final is a big, big week." While Murray plays this week in Rotterdam, Ancic will be playing a Challenger event in France. On this form it will not be long before they are duelling again on the main tour. Murray's brother Jamie, who was critical of his younger sibling's decision to skip the Davis Cup tie, made it a successful day for the family by winning his first title with his new doubles partner, Max Mirnyi, in Delray Beach, Florida. The 22-year-old, who won three titles last year with the American Eric Butorac, combined with the Belarusian to beat the top seeds Bob and Mike Bryan of the United States, 6-4, 3-6, 7-6, winning four points in a row to seal the tie-break and the match. Five and counting Murray's ATP singles titles  Feb 2006 San Jose (hard court) bt L Hewitt (Aus) 2-6, 6-1, 7-6 Feb 2007 San Jose (hard) bt I Karlovic (Cro) 6-7, 6-4, 7-6 Oct 2007 St Petersburg (carpet) bt F Verdasco (Sp) 6-2, 6-3 Jan 2008 Doha (hard) bt S Wawrinka (Switz) 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 Feb 2008 Marseille (hard) bt M Ancic (Cro) 6-3, 6-4 Britons on the tour Career singles titles Greg Rusedski 1991-2007 15 Tim Henman 1993-2007 11 Mark Cox 1962-1981 8 Roger Taylor 1960-1980 6 Buster Mottram 1970-1983 2 Jeremy Bates 1982-1996 1 John Lloyd 1973-1989 1 