  1. To see big names in the singles on outside courts make sure you go before the second Tuesday. It's doubles, veterans and juniors only from then on. 2. If you're not on the show courts head for Court No2, the "seeds' graveyard" (Pete Sampras lost there last year). You have to buy one of the 500 tickets available each day. 3. The best position to watch a match is centrally from behind the baseline (as on TV). Wherever you are, make sure you're sufficiently above ground level to follow the ball. 4. The best souvenirs around are Wimbledon towels (£13- £23). They last forever and are better value than most. 5. Cushions are expensive to buy (£6 standard, £13.50 de luxe) but they're only £1.70 to hire. Get them near gate four. 6. The best places to hide if it rains are the museum, the shop and the bar underneath Centre Court. Nip out the moment the skies darken (or when the referee Alan Mills hoves into view) to avoid the stampede. 7. Tickets from people leaving Centre and No1 courts are resold for charity at a hut next to gate 18, at the top of Henman Hill (£5 before 5pm, £3 after). 8. If you have weak legs, time your attempt to take your seat. Officials won't let you do so except during change-overs - which can mean standing for 10 seconds or 10 minutes. 9. The food choice is strawberries and cream, smoked salmon sandwiches, Pimm's and champagne at the members' lawn or fish and chips, pizza, Chinese and soft drinks. If healthy and cheap are your watchwords, take your own. 10. Autograph hunters can snare faded greats on the outside courts during a senior doubles game. There's also an autograph island by the practice courts in the first week with a rota of current players. 11. The museum (£3.50-£5.50) is good but, unless you're hiding from the rain, go another time. It's open all year. During Wimbledon there are too many people for it to be enjoyable. 12. If you want to be on TV sit near the scoreboard or behind the players. Failing that, sit forlornly under your umbrella on Centre Court when everyone else has given up and gone home. 13. Bring a radio with headphones to make sense of all the distant cheers. Radio Wimbledon is on 87.7FM. 14. The Kids' Zone is open to all, so get your serving speed measured. If you can live with the truth, that is. 15. If you want strawberries and cream or a Pimm's go in the middle of a big match. As soon as it finishes the queues are endless. 16. You'll be shamed by a wave of tut-tutting and whispers of "honestly" if you make noise during a rally, applaud a net cord or double fault or use a camera flash. So don't. 17. Hang around by the exits from Centre and No1 courts and you could strike lucky with a freebie from an early leaver. 18. To watch Tim Henman get there before 6pm of the previous day and queue. About 500 Centre Court tickets are available daily until the quarter-finals. 19. To see Henman without a Centre Court ticket you'll spot him practising on an outside court before his matches. 20. Whatever you do, don't forget these five essentials: a bottle of water, umbrella, suncream, light snacks - and a wallet stuffed with cash. 