 Tim Henman stepped on to a tennis court yesterday for the first time in public since his retirement and launched a volley at Britain's underachieving players while confirming he has no intention of joining Andy Murray's coaching team. Henman insisted that if the 20-year-old Scot asked him to assist with coaching following last month's split with the American Brad Gilbert, the reply would be a polite "no". The four-time Wimbledon semi-finalist said he is too happy with life as a househusband, dedicated father of three daughters and an afternoon golfer to return to tennis. "If you're going to do something like that [coach Murray] then there is a lot of travelling involved and that is something I'm enjoying not doing at the moment," Henman said. "I enjoy having a very empty diary. I'm sure that will wear off and I'll want to get stuck into different things. I will explore those opportunities later and I'd like to think I will be involved in tennis at some point in the future." Speaking before a charity match against Stefan Edberg at the Royal Albert Hall, the first time he has played in front of a crowd since Britain's David Cup victory over Croatia at Wimbledon in September, he called on those Britons attempting to follow in his footsteps to show the dedication and tenacity required. "At the end of the day the responsibility has to lie with the players," the 33-year-old said. "There have been far too many examples in this country over the last 20 years of guys who have not maximised their potential. The desire, the hunger and motivation has not been there. You look at the Argentinians, the Russians and the Spaniards - their work ethic and their commitment is better than ours. They have not necessarily got better technical ability than us, but if you look at their desire to achieve it is greater than our players'." Great Britain has one player in the world top 100 - Murray - with the next best Brit, Alex Bogdanovic, ranked at 190. However, Henman believes that gap can be bridged now that Bogdanovic is working with Gilbert on a part-time basis. "With Alex it's not about his tennis ability," he said. "He strikes a ball better than a lot of players on the main tour. The areas that he needs the biggest improvement in is physically and mentally. Brad will be on his case in a big way and this could be of enormous benefit to Alex." 