 Tim Henman eased through his first-round match in the World Indoor Tournament in Rotterdam last night with a straight-sets victory over Spain's Tommy Robredo. Henman had beaten Robredo in their two previous meetings and he was rarely threatened in their latest contest as he moved to a 7-5, 6-2 victory. "Robredo served well and dominated often in the rallies," Henman said. "But my service also went well and I didn't lose many first serves." The British No1 has reached the final three times at this tournament but he has a tough route ahead of him if he is to make it a fourth. The 29-year-old fifth seed is scheduled to face the Swedish veteran Jonas Bjorkman in the next round and then the world No1 Roger Federer in the quarter-finals. The Russian Nikolay Davydenko provided the surprise of the day when he beat the world No10 Paradorn Srichaphan in straight sets. Srichaphan started poorly, losing the first four games against an opponent who is ranked 41 places below him in the world. But the Thai showed his fighting spirit early in the second set as he clambered back from an early break to level at 3-3, before a double break for the solid Davydenko sealed the second set and the match. "I have a busy schedule for the coming weeks, but I am not focusing on my ranking," Srichaphan said. "I just want to play more consistently and that is my only goal. "I really moved too slow today. I tried to fight back after an early double break, but I missed the small chances I had on his service. Here - my first time in Rotterdam where everything looks OK and we play in a fine stadium - it simply did not work out." Raemon Sluiter thrilled his fellow countrymen with a comprehensive victory over Alex Corretja, the Dutchman beating the Spanish former world No2 6-4, 6-2. In Antwerp, Elke Clijsters failed in her attempt to set up a match with her elder sister Kim in the Diamond Games after losing 6-3, 6-2 to Spain's Arantxa Parra. Kim Clijsters was scheduled to meet the winner in the second round and she is probably relieved after saying she would not have been happy to beat Elke. The second seed had said the situation made her realise what Serena and Venus Williams must experience when they played each other. "I am in the position of Venus, who always said that she wanted Serena to win because she is the little sister," said Kim Clijsters. "Just like the Williamses when they played finals, the winner never seems happier than the loser." Karolina Sprem, a 19-year-old Croatian, knocked out Anna Smashnova-Pistolesi 6-1, 7-5 to spring the event's first big surprise. 