 Roger Taylor, the captain of Britain's Davis Cup team that in just over three weeks will play Australia in their world group first-round match in Sydney, cut a somewhat forlorn figure on the opening day of the Australian Open as he sat in the blazing sun and watched his country's sole representative fall in the first round.  Elena Baltacha, a wild card and playing in her first grand slam event outside Wimbledon, lost 6-1, 6-4 to the unpredictable but patently superior Alexandra Stevenson of the United States, the No15 seed. Taylor had no need to watch, given the parameters of his job, but for the first time since Roland Garros in 1994 Britain had no men in a grand slam tournament. Life without Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski, both injured, is no life at all.  Taylor will attend a routine Davis Cup captains' briefing today and then return home where he will take the lead role in the Lawn Tennis Association's latest production, Waiting for Henman. With Rusedski, before Christmas, having ruled himself out of the Davis Cup match, Taylor can only hope that Henman will put Queen and country ahead of any personal career objectives and decide to play. Sven Groeneveld, the former coach of Rusedski and in Melbourne with his new charge, the young Croatian Mario Ancic, who won his first-round match yesterday, believes Henman would be making a big mistake to play in Sydney, where the Australians have chosen to play the tie on clay.  "Unless Tim's shoulder is 100%, he should stay well away," said Groeneveld, who denied any approach had been made to him by the LTA to take over from France's Patrice Hagelauer as performance director, a job that David Felgate, Henman's former coach who is now working for IMG in the United States, is supposedly pressing for.  "I was very surprised to hear that Patrice had left. He is one of the best coaches in the world but I think that maybe he should have got together a small elite group and worked with them rather than trying to change the whole structure," said the Dutchman.  The 19-year-old Baltacha, ranked at No157 in the world, is Britain's leading woman player though little more than a raw novice. Illness disrupted her season last year and she is still not fully recovered. But to express "shock" at the speed of Stevenson's serve and to admit that "there was nothing I could have done today" suggested a naivety of preparation all too prevalent in British tennis.  Baltacha remains a long way off the standard required at this level and admitted to being "really nervous". After a disastrous first set, she gained a 3-2 lead in the second but could not raise her game further as her service disintegrated. 