 British No1 Andy Murray was knocked out of the Sony Ericsson Open in Miami after losing a tense final set against Mario Ancic. For Murray, seeded 13th, it was his first outing in the tournament having been given a bye in the first round and the Scot fought back valiantly from a terrible start to take the second-round match to a deciding set tie-break, only to go down 6-2, 2-6, 7-6. Murray was broken in his first service game and was outgunned for most of the remainder of the first set, the Croatian Ancic holding seven break points in total and managing to convert one more to take a healthy early advantage. Yet Murray's response was positive as he served much better in the second set and took two crucial breaks to level the contest. The final set was more gruelling with both players dropping serve twice. But, eventually, it was Ancic, currently ranked 63rd in the world, who came out on top after almost two-and-a-half hours on court, winning the tie-break 9/7. Elsewhere, Roger Federer had few real problems as he dispatched unseeded Frenchman Gael Monfils in his opening match. Also making his first appearance in the tournament after a first-round bye, the top seed made quick work of Monfils in the second round with a 6-3, 6-4 win in just over 67 minutes.  Federer, in his first match since his surprise loss to Mardy Fish in the Indian Wells semi-finals last week, broke in the eighth game of the first set for a 5-3 lead before serving out the set. He added an early break in the third game of the second set and maintained the lead to close out the match.  Also in action was sixth seed Andy Roddick, who needed three sets to beat Serbian qualifier Viktor Troicki 5-7, 6-2, 6-4. Roddick, who served 13 aces, received a stern test from Troicki, saving five break-point chances against him in the decisive set. "I was fortunate to get out of that one," Roddick said. "But to my credit, a couple of break points we played long points and there were rallies, and I didn't play myself out of them by making an error. I kind of stayed the course."  Fourth seed Nikolay Davydenko had to survive a pair of tie-breaks after going down a set as he outlasted Latvia's Ernests Gulbis 3-6, 7-6 (8/6), 7-6 (7/3) while 12th seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga rallied to overcome Austrian Jurgen Melzer 6-7 (7/4), 7-5, 6-1.  It was a disappointing day though for fifth seed David Ferrer, 14th seed Tommy Robredo and former world No1 Lleyton Hewitt as they all crashed out in the second round. Ferrer went out after a 6-4, 7-5 loss to Thomas Johansson, Israel's Dudi Sela overcame Robredo 7-6 (7-5), 6-1 while Hewitt was dispatched 6-3, 7-6 (7/4) by Jose Acasuso of Argentina. 