 Venus Williams, whose career appeared close to ruin only a couple of months ago after a long sequence of injuries, is close to this year's longest winning streak after her 14th consecutive victory took her to the semi-finals of the German Open yesterday. The former Wimbledon champion's 7-6, 5-7, 6-2 success over Paola Suarez also carried her closer to her third successive title - an achievement which would have seemed fantastic not long ago but which, to listen to her now, is more than likely to happen.  To believe Williams, it is clear where she and her sister Serena are heading. "It would be hard for us not to be No1 and 2 again," she murmured. It was an opinion uttered so gently and casually, it sounded almost like a form of modesty.  But yesterday's evidence is that it will be harder than she thinks. Williams struggled with an inconsistent wind and an Argentinian opponent who has been enjoying the best start to the season in her career. Indeed, in the first set, had Suarez followed two decent serves with even half-decent ground strokes at 30-30 in the 12th game or at 5-5 in the tie-break, she would have reached set point and possibly turned the match.  Williams was sometimes uncertain on her serve and frequently reduced to containment off the ground but she tried to come forward more than she used to and her stickability was never in doubt.  This fortitude she attributes partly to a long-term aim to keep calm and to the consoling words of her father Richard through the difficult months since Wimbledon last year, during which her body seemed to be falling to bits. "Even if I played a horrible match he would say nice things," she said.  Today Williams meets Karolina Sprem, an unseeded Croatian who has profited from Kim Clijsters' withdrawal. If she does go on to capture the title tomorrow, the American will equal the 16 wins during 2004 of Justine Henin-Hardenne, the world No1.  Henin began hitting tennis balls for the first time in five weeks yesterday, reportedly recovered from the virus which affected her in Charleston. But her chances of competing at the French Open in 16 days are described as "questionable".  Two top-10 players apparently overcoming back injuries quickly enough to compete in Paris are Jennifer Capriati and Amélie Mauresmo, who face each other in the other semi-final here today.  Mauresmo fought back dashingly against the 10th seed Svetlana Kuznetsova, launching into thrilling half-volley and early-ball drives as only she can during the second and third sets of a 6-7, 6-3, 6-1 win over the rising 18-year-old.  Mauresmo's recovery in one of the tour's loveliest settings occurred against a backdrop of birdsong and blossom, reminding everyone that, if her game could bloom as luxuriantly in Paris for a fortnight, she might elevate herself to the status of French legend.  But the second seed may have a hard job today. Capriati took merciless revenge on Anastasia Myskina, the world No5, for defeat in Doha last month, scoring a 6-3, 6-2 victory. It was the American's best performance of the year. 