 Excuses after defeats have always tended to spill out of the Williams sisters' mouths like water out of a gargoyle during a storm. And it was abundantly clear that Jennifer Capriati, who remained on course for both the Wimbledon title and the calendar grand slam with a 6-7, 7-5, 6-3 quarter-final victory over Serena yesterday, was less than impressed by her opponent's post-match claims that she had been sick for four days. "Every time I play her, I'm pretty much used to something going on," said Capriati. This was the third time they have met this year, and Capriati's third win, although on this occasion she was within two points of losing. Williams led 7-6, 5-3 with Capriati at 0-30 on her serve when the whole match was turned on its head, Capriati winning the next nine games.  Clearly all was not well with Williams. She took medication midway through the second set, at the same time that Capriati had to leave the court for treatment to what the Americans would call "her butt". Then, with Capriati leading 4-0 in the final set, Williams suddenly had to make a run for the exit. "I was really nauseated. I just had to get out of there. "I don't know how I came back. I was thinking 'Oh, man'. It was horrible."  When Capriati defeated her at this year's Ericsson Open, Williams blamed it all on a bad knee, while at the French Open, where Capriati also beat her in the quarter-finals, she had claimed to have had more knee trouble coupled with food poisoning.  Capriati was asked whether Williams's problems had in any way diluted the nature of her victories ."It doesn't matter," the reigning Australian and French Open champion replied. "I think I know the truth inside. I think most people do."  The WTA, the women's professional ruling body, later confirmed that Williams had told them she might not have been able to play Monday's fourth-round match against Bulgaria's Magdalena Maleeva, which she won 6-2, 6-1 and later yesterday the sisters pulled out of the women's doubles which they won last year, the reason being Serena's gastroenteritis.  She joked that she might be "a hypochondriac", although did not appear entirely sure what the word meant. "Somebody that is prone to get sick, hurt and injured, more prone than the next individual," she said, "that's Serena Williams. Under hypochondriac they should put my name." Both sisters love to play these little games, and have been well briefed by their father on how to obfuscate in press conferences, but there was real pain when, dropping her head, the young American admitted: "Seems like every time I get up, I'm put down."  For all the hype surrounding the Williams', there can be no doubt that being two sisters competing for the world's leading titles is fraught with difficulties and for the moment Serena, the younger of the two, is clearly struggling to reconcile herself with Venus's greater success.  It had always seemed likely that this would be Capriati's biggest test before the final, and the ferocity of Williams's forehand in the opening stages frequently drew gasps from a centre-court crowd who, while trying to be even-handed, were clearly bending towards Capriati.  It was Williams who struck early for a 2-0 lead but Capriati's response was immediate, and Williams found herself serving to save the first set at 3-5. This she managed, but then came three breaks of serve, two against Capriati, to take the opening set into a tie-break which Williams won 7-4. At 3-3 Capriati slipped, losing the point, and threw her racket at the spot in disgust, exclaiming: "You can't afford to lose points like that."  The exchanges continued to be prolonged and fiery, although the quality of tennis was patchy, a combination of stunning winners, hit with tremendous venom by both women, and a high number of errors as each attempted to finish the other off and seize the mental high ground.  Williams appeared to have succeeded, but with Capriati two points away from defeat she failed to nail her opponent, and from then on she was in white water.  "It's tough to say whether I won mentally or physically, maybe a little bit of both," said Capriati. Maybe I was more consistent on the important points. That kind of makes a player break down mentally. It seemed that sometimes, when I return her best shots, that she's not expecting them to come back, like she's surprised."  Capriati admitted that when she was so close to defeat her mind flashed back to Roland Garros. "I thought 'Well, if you could do it there, you can do it now'. It worked." Nevertheless, Williams's subsequent collapse was startling to say the least. Then at 0-4, she made for the exit. Capriati was surprised. "I asked the umpire, and she said Serena had to use the bathroom, that it was an emergency. I didn't want to know the details."  After losing to Capriati in Paris, Williams remarked that it had been an imposter playing in her place, and that the real Serena would be at Wimbledon. Clearly she was unfortunate to get ill, but she has played in very few tournaments this year and is not, for whatever reason, fulfilling her potential, having won the US Open title as a 17-year-old two years ago.  "Do you think Serena thinks she is a better player than she really is?" Capriati was asked. She smiled, recognising the ticking bomb, and replied sweetly: "I don't know. I'm not going to comment on that question." 