 Tim Henman's long-held private faith, doubted by many, that he can one day win the Wimbledon title has never wavered, and when Pete Sampras, his nemesis in two successive semi-finals in 1998 and 1999, lost in the fourth round to Switzerland's Roger Federer on Monday, the British player's belief was strengthened a hundredfold, turning into something close to conviction.   Yesterday Henman beat Federer 7-5, 7-6, 2-6, 7-6 and tomorrow he plays Croatia's Goran Ivanisevic, a player to whom he has never lost, in his third semi-final in four years. In public he remains cautious. "If I were to beat Goran I would still say the winner of the Pat Rafter-Andre Agassi match goes into the final as favourite." Ivanisevic's story has understandably captured the hearts of all fans. He all but turned his back on tennis at the beginning of the year, his form having totally deserted him and his damaged shoulder causing him constant pain. As a three-times Wimbledon finalist he was awarded a wild card for these championships, more out of sentiment than anything, with nobody expecting him to last long. Now here he is in the semi-finals. And against Henman. Virtually all of the 15,000 on centre court tomorrow will be willing Henman to win but, if he were to lose, they would dearly love to see Ivanisevic go on and achieve his impossible dream. "I don't expect much support. All England is talking about Henman winning. There will be huge pressure, and we'll see who handles it best," said Ivanisevic. The pressure was certainly on Henman yesterday against Federer. Everybody, not least the British No1, knew that beating the 19-year-old Swiss would be a huge task, given his sustained brilliance against Sampras. Henman had to hope that Federer would not be able to achieve those heights for a second successive match, and in this respect it was imperative that he himself seized the initiative. This he achieved wonderfully in the third game of the opening set, returning Federer's serve superbly. But Henman would not be Henman if the path ahead had not been strewn with stones and pitfalls. No sooner had he edged ahead than he was pegged back, a searing backhand service return down the line levelling the score at 4-4. Henman blew out his cheeks, clenched his teeth and stared steadfastly at some distant point where inspiration waved a fluttering handkerchief of recognition. One of many expertly controlled lobs had Federer in trouble on his serve again and, when Henman finished him, he pumped his fist in grim delight. The Union and St George's flags danced and Henmania was rekindled, if not with quite the same intensity of two and three years ago when there was a greater belief that Henman could finally win the title that Fred Perry last took for Britain in 1936.  At no other grand slam tournament has Henman progressed beyond the last 16, and blind faith has been replaced by greater caution. Even the BBC, whose jingoism is apt to reach ridiculous heights in such situations, cautioned against over-optimism. Maybe it is the influence of John McEnroe, although he has insisted that Henman is his title choice. Henman duly served out the first set, with Federer looking altogether more vulnerable than he had against Sampras. "Come on Timothy, come on Timmy, come on Tim" came the seagull cries. Federer needed to lift himself, but the second set, until the tie-break, passed by mercifully quietly for Henman. Henman inched ahead 3-1 in the tie-break only to fall behind when Federer hit a backhand of such extraordinary velocity and accuracy that the centre court buzzed for a full half-minute. An ace by Federer, followed by a volley of total certitude, put him 6Ð3 ahead, and it seemed the second set was about to slide out of Henman's grasp. To his huge credit he hung in, saved three set points and was suddenly, magically, two sets up. Federer immediately left for what in polite circles is called a bathroom break and on his return donned a fresh headband. Perhaps the Wimbledon authorities should inspect it, for in a twinkling he was back in his pomp, and he rushed through the third set 6-2.  The strain was etched on Henman's face as he struggled to stop the rot, to quieten the nerves in his stomach and refocus his shifting concentration. He gained a 3-1 lead in the fourth set, immediately staved of a cluster of break points, and then four times failed to establish what would have been an invincible 5-1 lead on Federer's serve. Federer took a three-minute time-out for a massage on his left thigh and then the rollercoaster ride began in earnest, Henman's fans clinging on, white-knuckled, for dear life. From 5-2 down, Federer levelled, breaking Henman when he served for the match at 5-4. A peach of a forehand service return had Henman reeling at 0-30, and a fifth set beckoned. But Henman forced a second tie-break and was not to be denied, finally clinching victory on the second match point. Roger and out. 