 Graeme Smith, holed up in Somerset, might have fondly imagined that South Africa would creep into England almost unnoticed. Not a bit of it. With a rock festival about to start down the road at Glastonbury, in Taunton there was also a lot rocking cricket. His suitcase barely unpacked, Smith was asked to pass judgment upon the fate of Paul Collingwood, the campaign to suspend Zimbabwe from international cricket and the drain of players from South Africa, and did so with a responsive, mildly amused, air. On Zimbabwe, he was anxious to put the record straight, dismissing reports from South Africa that a rebellion of senior players had forced Cricket South Africa officials to end bilateral links with Zimbabwe. "I know there has been talk of players influencing this but it is not true," he said. "We didn't even know that they were making the decision. But it is a stance that Cricket South Africa can be proud of." On his second tour of England as captain, he brims with confidence that South Africa can add to England's troubles by winning the four-Test series. Jeremy Snape has even retired at Leicestershire to join them as high performance coach after impressing Smith during their time with the Indian Premier League winners, Rajasthan Royals. "Jeremy has a great ability to marry the mental and the cricketing aspects," he said. Smith suffered a hamstring injury in the IPL, which might cause him to go into the Lord's Test without a warm-up match, but it did not unduly concern him. "It's my goal to play against Middlesex at Uxbridge next Friday," he said, "but if I don't get time in the middle then I'll just have to put the time in the nets." Whether England can resist South Africa's pace attack will decide the summer. In Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel they have two fast bowlers with a growing reputation. "It is a young attack with huge prospects," he said. He has not had time to study England's top six - he has left that to coach Mickey Arthur - but knows that they are underperforming. Questions about the spirit of the game are never far away at the moment. "It's going to be a big competitive series," he said. "We'd love to be a really competitive side but I don't think we'd like to go home with an ugly reputation after having an ugly series. We'd like to be remembered for the type of cricket we played. That is the legacy we want to leave." English county cricket drains South Africa of so many of its best young players, benefiting neither nation. "South Africa cricket is far from dead; we have immense talent," Smith said. "It's easy to make good money in England. Maybe youngsters aren't working hard enough to succeed in our system. It's a challenge of leadership." 