 Brad Gilbert was having a surprisingly good day, commentating on his former charge. "He knows how to play poker," he enthused as Andy Murray made an outrageous escape from the verge of apparently certain defeat. "He knows how to bluff." That seemed part explanation of the recovery Murray made during the 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 victory over the former world No1 Carlos Moyá that took him to his second Masters Series semi-final in two weeks. Just how Murray came back from so far behind - a set and then a break of serve down in the second, and twice within a point of a double break there - is a multiple mystery. It was true that Murray provided a misleading, maybe disingenuous, impression that he was fretting and floundering - looking at his knee, looking as though he did not want to be there. From 2-6, 0-2, 15-40, he began hitting his serve harder, taking advantage of Moyá's growing tiredness in the 100-degree heat, riding the momentum and, remarkably, taking 18 of the next 19 points. Moyá kept going as best he could but that sequence knocked the stuffing out of the admirable 31-year-old. Thereafter he was mostly helpless against a young player with mature tactical visions, which become fascinating to see when all is well with his body and mood. The forehand winner Murray made to save the second of those double break points, taken from deep in the backhand tramlines while leaning back, and rushing down the inner rail, was the shot of the match. It was followed by all sorts of subtle geometry, clever wrong-footing, line-hugging backhands and one short-angled, cross-court pass fashioned with slice that was pure invention. The mystery was where all these gems had been hidden before and why Murray allowed himself to get so close to the edge. Perhaps the bothersome knee made him a slow starter or maybe he was surprised by the force and accuracy of Moyá's forehand drive, one of the game's great shots. The knee was OK, he said, though he did admit to some physical discomfort. "Moyá was serving really well and I was making unforced errors. The humidity gets to your breathing at the start but I managed to get it together," he said. "He was playing too well for me and I was sluggish at the start," Murray added. "But I managed to turn it around with some big serving halfway through the second set ... When you are playing someone like Carlos who can make you do a lot of running, you get out of breath quickly and you have to try to make the best of it, try to get some cheap points on your serve and I managed to do that in the end." What most pleased Murray was his ability to stay in control emotionally when control of the match was wavering. He did not get worked up, his head did not go down. "I knew what I was doing," he said. Performing a grand deception, he might have added. This will be his fifth Masters Series semi-final and he has yet to win one. But against Roger Federer's conqueror, Ivo Karlovic, he probably has his best chance yet. 