 Fire is followed by fire in the Masters Cup and Tim Henman, after yesterday's 6-2, 6-2 win over Guillermo Coria, immediately meets Marat Safin head on today in his last round-robin match with the winner being assured of a place in the semi-finals tomorrow.  It is a match of the highest pressure for two players of quite different styles and temperaments who have not traded blows for more than 2 years and are tied at 2-2 in previous meetings. "It's unusual we haven't played a bit more, but I wouldn't say there are going to be any sort of secrets," said Henman. "He's very solid from the baselines and I need to try and mix it and make him move. He's been playing very well."  Not well enough to brush aside Andy Roddick yesterday who, as against Henman whom he defeated 7-5, 7-6 earlier this week, displayed his new-found assurance at the net. In this respect he showed Henman exactly what he has to do against Safin.  Roddick's 7-6, 7-6 win clinched his place in the last four in front of what amounts to a home crowd. It was a match of quite colossal hitting and serving, with Safin just one point away from levelling the scores at 6-5 in the second, and smashing a racket in high frustration at his own failure.  Safin was the in-form player coming into the tournament and will present Henman, who possesses none of the Russian's vast weaponry, with an immense challenge. He will rely on stealth and spin, hoping to drive Safin to a froth of self-doubt and self-destruction.  Coria and Henman had last met in this year's French Open semi-final with the Argentinian winning on his favourite clay surface before losing to Gaston Gaudio in a dramatic final. Since then Coria has suffered severe shoulder problems, which needed surgery in August, and only returned to competitive play this week, losing to Safin 6-1, 6-4 in just an hour.  Henman took 10 minutes longer but the win was equally decisive against an opponent who was rarely able to serve above 100mph. "He was obviously struggling with his serve,' said Henman, "but he is still very dangerous in the rallies, and it was important didn't let him dictate them."  After three days of unremitting grey skies the sun finally emerged, although there was some residual water damage to the court surface. Otherwise conditions were ideal. "Fingers crossed it will now stay like this," added Henman, whose game can be adversely affected by heavy, humid conditions, particularly against Safin's crunching blows.  Roger Federer's second win in the red group secured his semi-final place and was his seventh in succession here, the fiefdom of the furniture billionaire Jim McIngvale, where last year the Swiss world No1 took the title undefeated.  Federer's 6-3, 6-4 victory was his fifth in succession over Lleyton Hewitt, dating back to this year's Australian Open, before which the Australian held a 7-2 career lead. Hewitt was not without his chances in the opening set, but Federer engineered the one crucial break of serve.  "He's got the belief to pull the trigger on the big points. He really believes he can go for it, and that's what singles him out and makes him the best player in the world," said Hewitt. No one would disagree. 