 Once again Tim Henman followed a great week with a ghastly one.  Having beaten Roger Federer last month in Rotterdam, he lost to Tomas Zib, ranked outside the top 100. Having beaten Andy Roddick last week in Indian Wells, he lost yesterday to Jürgen Melzer, an Austrian ranked down in the 60s, by 7-6, 2-6, 7-6 in his opening match here in the Nasdaq-100 Open.  It was typical Henman, who would no sooner play his way out of difficulty and get set fair than he would land in trouble again, often taking eccentric gambles trying to get to the net. He was a mini-break up in the first-set tie-break, played an exemplary second set, served for the match at 6-5 in the third, and still couldn't make it.  There were certainly extenuating circumstances. The wind on an outside court was even more treacherous than usual, splaying the palm trees, tugging insidiously at the racket and creating a roulette-wheel feeling to the contest. Moreover Melzer is a hit-or-bust left-hander who had a day when he didn't bust much.  He also struck two searing flat passes at 30-30 when Henman was serving for it and magicked a winning lob from a difficult position when he seemed certain to go 3-5 in the deciding tie-breaker.  "I knew it wasn't going to be pretty out there," said Henman. "It doesn't get more difficult than that. It was swirling. There was no consistency and it was not possible to play the same type of tennis I have been.  "A lot of times I felt it was best just to get a racket on the ball, hit down the middle and come in. But all credit to him. He played some really good stuff."  This didn't alter the fact that the British No1's second serve was punished too frequently for comfort and that a little more subtlety with the mixtures of containment and attack might have brought survival.  Goran Ivanisevic's euphoria at winning only his second match in 26 months, bringing closer the possibility of a nostalgic farewell at SW19 in June, suffered an unpleasant setback. The former Wimbledon champion, who had an operation on his shoulder after his victory in the 2001 final, hurt his shoulder again against Rafaël Nadal and had to retire after losing the first set against the world's leading junior.  Earlier Serena Williams' much-vaunted comeback after eight months out took place before a few scattered spectators, some angry-looking clouds, and an echoing loudspeaker.  It was an oddly low-key return. Her 6-1,6-0 win over a qualifier, Marta Marrero, lasted less than three-quarters of an hour and was received by little more than sporadic clapping, some hardy cheers.  "I was very nervous out there," she said. "I think my dad was with Venus practising and I was just waiting on my own. I definitely felt I hadn't been around in a long time."  However, the Wimbledon champion struck some heavy winners, controlled her serve quite well in the breeze, showed no signs of any problems with the operated-upon knee, and intimidated Marrero so much that the young Spaniard delivered a spate of double faults, two of them to drop service games.  Williams also appeared in a shiny white silk dress with a tight-fitting glittering silver centrepiece. You half-expected a tinsel star on her racket.  "It's a corset dress," she explained. "It's wonderful. I told them (the co-designers) that I'm really into looking good on the court. I don't have to be very comfortable." 