 Usain Bolt has told Australian media he is considering an offer from the former Test leg-spinner Shane Warne to play Twenty20 cricket in Australia's Big Bash League next season. The Melbourne Stars franchise, for which Warne is the marquee player, confirmed it has opened negotiations with the Olympic sprint star through his management company. Bolt, who defended his 100 metres and 200m titles in London to take his Olympics gold medal tally to six, played junior cricket in Jamaica and has expressed a love for the sport. He told Australia's Channel Nine: "If I get the chance I will definitely try because I know it's going to be a lot of fun. I don't know how good I am. I will probably have to get a lot of practice in." The Big Bash League will run from 7 December to 9 January. The Melbourne Stars president, Eddie McGuire, first raised the prospect of Bolt playing for the Stars in an interview with the sprinter at the London Games. Warne then followed up that approach with a more formal offer. "He [Warne] contacted me and asked me about if I am serious and if I really want to do it then he can put in a few words that should get it done," Bolt said. "So we will see if I get the time off. I will try. "Twenty20, I love it. Just the fact that it is so exciting, it's about going hard the whole time, not just about playing shots. It's about being aggressive and I like that style of batsman." Cricket Australia's Big Bash League project manager, Mike McKenna, told Fairfax media he would not rule out the possibility of Bolt playing in the competition. But he said he would need assurances the sprinter was being picked on merit and not as a novelty to attract spectators and television viewers. "We'd be very keen to have someone like Usain Bolt involved in some way in the BBL," McKenna said. "He's very keen on cricket, he's been close to the Australian cricket team and I'd imagine he is pretty quick between the wickets. "But we would want to make sure that any athletes can play another code to an appropriate level. The competition has gone beyond the novelty factor." 