 Martina Hingis overcame a brief glitch yesterday to beat Laura Granville, a 20-year-old American wild card, 6-2, 6-0 but the world No1 had a harder time at the hands of the press afterwards.  Hingis was asked about controversial comments made earlier this year in Time magazine in which she said that the Williams sisters had an advantage because they were black and that people were wary of criticising them.  Hingis hesitated before apologising for the remarks. "I didn't mean to hurt anyone's feeling," she said. "It doesn't mean I'm against everybody.  "Maybe it was politically incorrect but I don't know all the rules here," she went on, stumblingly. But, when asked if players were afraid to criticise the Williams sisters, her verbal footwork was nimbler.  "Well, you always have to respect what they say. It doesn't matter what race they are, what colour they are," she said. That triggered a query as to whether the Williams's race caused players to self-censor their criticisms. Hingis reckoned she had been served a fault and wisely turned to the WTA Tour communications manager Raquel Martin to steer the questions to safer topics.  Hingis had earlier dropped serve to allow Granville to go from 0-3 to 2-3 but thereafter the Swiss woman was characteristically too accurate and varied from the baseline for the top US college player, who had only just turned professional and was on a stadium court for the first time. But it was not as aggressive a performance as Hingis may need if she is to retain top spot.  Unfortunately her ability to relax and go for victory was not helped by something rather like Dan Dare's enemy, the Mekon on his flying saucer, following her around. This was a spectacularly intrusive new TV camera hurtling down at intervals from a height of 150 feet to within a short distance of the players' heads.  Hingis is in danger here of losing that top-ranking status to the reigning Australian and French Open champion Jennifer Capriati or possibly to Lindsay Davenport, 6-2, 6-3 victor over Germany's Andrea Glass. She is also desperate to win her first grand slam title since the 1999 Australian Open.  "It's a long way before I have to think about the No1 thing," Hingis said. "And I love that kind of pressure; it's a challenge I like. I'm hungry for the grand slams but all the players are."  Martina Navratilova has said that Hingis should bulk up, become quicker, hit more forcefully and serve and smash more solidly.  Hingis did manage to serve four aces but made no serve-and-volley winners, only two volley winners and may need to be much more aggressive if she is consistently to beat the Williams sisters or any of the big hitters. 