 India will continue their defiant stand against the most contentious aspect of the umpire decision review system, predicting the path of the ball for lbw decisions, despite a recommendation from a second key committee of the game's global governing body that it should be made mandatory in all Test cricket. That means Hawk-Eye, or another ball-tracking system, is unlikely to be used in England's four-Test series in India later this year, which will be a disappointment to the England players who have regularly stated their support for the technology. The chief executives committee of the International Cricket Council, including David Collier of the England and Wales Cricket Board, followed the ICC's cricket committee – whose chairman Clive Lloyd, the former West Indies captain, was present at their meeting in Malaysia – by recommending "the universal application of the DRS" after being convinced by further research into ball-tracking results conducted by Dr Ed Rosten, an expert in computer vision technology based in Cambridge. According to the ICC, Dr Rosten had "tested the accuracy and reliability of ball-tracking in a recent Test series and concluded that the results were 100% in agreement with the outcomes produced from his assessments". But before the latest recommendation is considered by the full ICC board later in the week Sanjay Jagdale, the secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India who was a member of the chief executives committee, signalled that the game's most powerful country are still refusing to budge. "We wish to clarify that while the DRS was discussed at the meeting, the BCCI's stance on the same is unchanged," said Jagdale. "The BCCI continues to believe that the system is not foolproof. The board also sticks to its view that the decision on whether or not to use the DRS for a particular series should be left to the boards involved in that series." A previous attempt to make DRS mandatory after last year's ICC meeting in Hong Kong was diluted at India's instigation to exclude the ball-tracking technology, which has therefore been used on a series-by-series basis over the last year. That piecemeal solution has led to regular controversy, most recently in Galle where the Pakistan coach Dav Whatmore complained that the absence of DRS had cost his team a number of key decisions before they were beaten by Sri Lankaon Monday. The ICC has recognised that finance could be a factor in the use of DRS in countries such as Sri Lanka, but that is not an issue in India. However, questions were raised about the accuracy of Virtual Eye, a rival to Hawk-Eye that was used in New Zealand's home series against South Africa earlier this year, when the creator of that system threatened to take his expensive toys home after criticism from several players, including Jacques Kallis. The situation is further complicated by inconsistencies in the limited-overs game. Hawk-Eye was not used for England's Twenty20 victory over West Indies on Sunday but will be back in business for the start of the five-match 50-over series against Australia at Lord's on Friday – for which England have named an unchanged 14-man squad. Meanwhile South Africa, who arrived in England next week ahead of a three-Test series that will determine who tops the world rankings, will prepare with a four-day team-building camp with the explorer Mike Horn in his home town of Château d'Oex in Switzerland. That carries more than a hint of the methods used by the England team director Andy Flower ahead of the Ashes triumph in 2010-11. 