 Eoin Morgan, upon resuming the captaincy of England’s one-day side in India, shrugged off the criticism that followed his decision to miss the tour of Bangladesh but revealed it did leave a number of his family “very offended”. Morgan, 30, leads the side into the first of two warm-up fixtures against India A in Mumbai on Tuesday before the opening one‑day international in Pune on Sunday, with Jos Buttler, who deputised during his absence, returning to the ranks as vice-captain. Morgan’s decision, along with that of the opener Alex Hales, to miss the tour of Bangladesh in October on security grounds provoked a mixed reaction with Andrew Strauss, the director of England cricket, placing on record his disappointment while two of Morgan’s predecessors, Nasser Hussain and Michael Vaughan, suggested the captain’s authority would be damaged as a result. Asked about the fallout, Morgan told BBC’s Test Match Special: “To be honest, I didn’t see much of it. When things are announced like that, you can plan how to deal with it, and my way of dealing with it was to get away from things, which I did. “So I didn’t see a great deal of it. I think my family saw a lot of it and were very offended, but that’s part and parcel of being in the limelight sometimes. Certainly standing here I don’t regret the decision. Since we arrived here three days ago, things have been really good, plenty of energy around the group, which is awesome.” While Morgan and Hales were permitted to miss Bangladesh without any long‑term recriminations as regards future selection, the former finds himself needing to hit the ground running given both a personal sequence of only two half-centuries in 13 international innings and the plaudits that Buttler’s leadership earned during the 2-1 series win. Even though a change of captaincy before the summer’s Champions Trophy looks unlikely given Morgan’s role in a reversal of England’s white-ball fortunes since the 2015 World Cup, he knows from his own ascension to the job, which came on the eve of that tournament, how things can change quickly. “Nothing is a certainty, absolutely nothing,” said Morgan, who flew into India after a spell playing in Australia’s Big Bash League. “But I like to think things have gone pretty well for us over a period of time and we’ve had a little bit of success. You’re always out to prove how good you are. I’m always looking to win games of cricket and score runs. “[Jos] was happy to hand back. I think he really enjoyed the role and the proof was in the performances he put in. I thought he was outstanding and look at how the senior players responded, like Ben Stokes.” Morgan’s side face a strong India A side in Tuesday’s day-night fixture in Mumbai. The hosts will be led by MS Dhoni, who recently stood down as India’s one-day captain, and features experienced internationals in Yuvraj Singh, Ashish Nehra and Shikhar Dhawan. England will be without Liam Plunkett, as he recovers from a calf injury, and Joe Root, following the birth of his first child over the weekend. The latter will arrive in India on Thursday, the day of second warm-up match at the Cricket Club of India, but has one more wait on his hands with Alastair Cook’s future Test captain seemingly yet to be resolved. 