 A stiflingly hot Wednesday evening in Delhi and, as darkness descends on the tree-lined boulevards surrounding the Feroz Shah Kotla cricket ground, a convoy of scooters, cars and motorised rickshaws seven vehicles wide nudges its way towards the stadium, their horns blasting as the traffic grinds to a halt. Exhaust fumes rise, mixing with the smoke from a spectacular firework display, but through the haze and smog the floodlights glimmer in the distance, soaring high above the street vendors and crowds of spectators swarming into the stadium. When the cacophony of engine noise and police sirens subsides, the rhythmic beat of traditional Punjabi Dhol drums floats through the night-time air.  The Indian Premier League, cricket's travelling circus, has arrived in the capital, with Bollywood actors and billionaire Indian businessmen in tow, and as the rush hour comes to an end the struggle to reach the ground through roads choked with traffic begins.  In temperatures touching 30 degrees, the Delhi Daredevils are taking on the Bangalore Royal Challengers in IPL match number 17 and the 47,000-seat stadium is filling up rapidly. At the edge of the ground, 14 TV trucks are parked up in two neat rows, evidence of the huge media interest in the tournament, and, as broadcast crews stake out their spots, the great and good of Delhi are making themselves comfortable in the corporate hospitality boxes, using the '4' and '6' cards handed out by Honda, the home team's sponsor, as makeshift fans. Ten minutes before the scheduled 8pm start time, as the players warm up on the outfield - Bangalore dressed in garish yellow and Delhi wearing red and black - only a few seats, in the third tier of the huge east stand, remain empty, but at the imposing black wooden gates dotted around the perimeter of the ground scuffles are breaking out between police armed with bamboo lathis and a dozen young men who are trying to force their way in, waving their tickets in the air forlornly to show that they have paid the 700 rupees (£9) entry fee. Long after Bangalore's captain, Rahul Dravid, puts Delhi in to bat, and Gautam Gambhir starts to slap the ball around insouciantly to loud roars of approval - he will go on to score 86 of Delhi's 191 runs - things are turning ugly at the entrances guarding the cheaper seats and the 'VVIP' enclosure.  A Sikh officer shouts at a young teenager and shoves him hard, sending him flying backwards. As the youth picks himself up and scampers off, a woman in a pink sari approaches a security guard, imploring him to let her past and pushing her young son through a gap in the railings as she tries to jump the queue. The police, in their brown uniforms, argue with burly security guards, several of whom are screaming at polo-shirted stewards, while teams of black-capped men with walkie-talkies, the words 'Can I help you?' emblazoned on the back of their T-shirts, push their way past the scrum and through the tiny gap in the imposing 10ft gates. For the tournament organisers, the all-powerful Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the sight of a packed stadium will be a pleasing one, despite the chaos engulfing the ground. Similar scenes have been played out in all eight cities that are home to the newly created franchises across India over the past fortnight as the league - hastily assembled by the BCCI to undermine the rival Indian Cricket League, a rebel tournament backed by Zee TV - promises to make cricket palatable to a new global audience. When Bangalore played a home game against Chennai on Monday, the streets of the southern city, once a sleepy army base favoured by retired officers but now a bustling, modern metropolis of six million people, were gridlocked for two hours as traffic police watched on helplessly, looking as bewildered as tail-end batsmen facing a hostile spell of fast bowling. If demand for tickets is a measure of success, the tournament has begun better than many expected.  The start of tonight's game has already been delayed to give engineers from Sony Max, the Indian TV channel that paid $1billion (£500million) to screen the games, more time to replace cables damaged by a fire started by sparks from the firework display, and there have been similar technical teething problems at other grounds. The Kolkata Knight Riders' first game at the 90,000-capacity Eden Gardens was interrupted after someone stole the wires connecting the floodlights to the electricity supply, while on the field there has been more than enough controversy to keep the league on the front pages, pushing political scandals, foreign affairs and even India's ambitious space programme to the bottom of the news agenda.  Scantily clad cheerleaders imported from the United States and Europe have been condemned in parliament; the Delhi team, owned by construction company GMR, have dispensed with their services tonight. Harbhajan Singh, captain of the Mumbai Indians and the bad boy of Indian cricket, has been banned for 11 games - in all probability the rest of his team's season - after slapping Punjab King's XI fast bowler Sreesanth in the face. And Bangalore Royal Chargers' flamboyant owner Vijay Mallya, a sort of Indian Richard Branson whose business interests include an airline and the country's largest drinks company, has been criticised by the country's health minister for naming his team after one of his famous whisky brands, contravening a strict ban on alcohol advertising.  Mallya's cheerleaders are the most daring of them all, but Charu Sharma, the former TV presenter who is now chief executive of the Bangalore team, is irritated by the furore. 'They are wearing what they usually wear. We brought them in because they were voted the most popular cheerleaders of 2007 by the NFL.' The original plan was to create a Pop Idol style reality TV show in which Indian girls would compete to win a chance to become a full-time Bangalore cheerleader, and that could still happen, he adds. But that is one of many ideas put on hold while the eight teams struggle with the logistics of a hectic schedule that requires them to play once every three days. 'Eventually it's going to be about global fan bases and merchandising,' Sharma says. 'But our kit suppliers were hard-pressed to make the team's clothes, let alone dress the country or the world.' There are no problems with Delhi's new floodlights and they blaze brightly as the crowd enjoys a one-sided contest, although TV viewers miss the first six overs as Sony Max fail to restore coverage. Their audiences have rocketed since the tournament began, but tonight the excitement and suspense they will need to keep viewers entranced until the final in a month's time is largely missing. Bangalore, with one win from four games, never look like reaching their target, despite a creditable 87-run partnership between Jacques Kallis and Dravid, and, with 35 required off the last two overs, the formidable Glenn McGrath returns to bowl Dravid, effectively sealing a win for the home team. Man-of-the-match McGrath posts remarkable figures for a 'T20' game, conceding 29 runs from his four overs and taking four wickets.  'The question is how do you make the franchise competitive so everyone succeeds and it's not too one-sided,' concedes Yogesh Shetty, chief executive of GMR Sports, the subsidiary set up to run the Delhi Daredevils. He nevertheless insists that the tournament will go from strength to strength. 'Even in the third week it will be intense because people will still have a chance to make it to the semis. But the teams at the bottom of the table must fear that the crowds will lose interest, and that will damage the product - half-empty grounds don't look good on television.'  Delhi are on course to make the knock-out stages and the fans who manage to get into the stadium feast on chapatis and cheap, undercooked pizzas. Those lucky enough to gain entry to the air-conditioned VIP area are handed free boxes of pastries and bottles of Pepsi, while watching TV coverage from the comfort of reclining chairs.  'We should cross 200,' smiles a plump middle-aged Delhi fan as he glances at his BlackBerry to check the identity of the new batsman strolling to the crease. This is the new India as it likes to see itself, an emerging economic power that is enthusiastically embracing the 21st century even though large parts of the country are yet to experience the benefits of the last one.  The rich can watch live IPL on their mobile phones while eating in a restaurant where the electricity goes off twice an hour - a storm blacked out half of Bangalore on Tuesday - but the poor have no time to worry about sport, even if India's cricketers remain the nation's most fêted celebrities. In the executive enclosure, wealthy teenagers in designer clothes watch attentively but for the most part dispassionately. 'I'd come again,' says Rahil Basjas, a 19-year-old student who is here with two friends, 'but only if I can sit in these seats. The food and drink is good. Those seats are 700 rupees,' he says, pointing to the jubilant but overheated crowds fenced into the corner of the ground 20ft below. 'These are 5,000 rupees [£60].'  Every time Gambhir finds the boundary the Punjabi drummers start up again, and Bangalore's American cheerleaders, on loan from the Washington Redskins, climb on their podiums and gyrate provocatively. But cheers still go up when Bangalore's New Zealand opener Ross Taylor slogs a six early in the visiting team's innings and enthusiastic chants break out after the visitors' Virak Kholi, captain of India's under-19 team, comes in to bat. Local loyalties seem to count for little. 'We like Kholi,' explains Prashant Dixit, a 16-year-old whose father is a senior aide to Delhi's finance minister. 'He plays for the Delhi state side but he's playing for Bangalore now.'  'He went there for the money,' adds Nikhil Dixit, Prashant's 22-year-old brother, an MBA student. But if the crowd are under no illusions about the players' motives, then none of them seems to mind.  'People come here for the spectacle and the occasion,' Nikhil says. 'We want Delhi to win but they are all Indian teams.'  It is an entertaining spectacle but one that the IPL is making it difficult for the rest of the world to see. In the UK, the games have been bought by subscription channel Setanta, while a dispute over international picture rights means the league has not been given the coverage it might have done if the IPL was not so jealously guarding images from the games. The Observer travelled across the world to watch the IPL, but our photographer was not allowed into the Delhi ground despite repeated requests, and the major agencies are refusing to provide live coverage as IPL rules stipulate that all images taken of the action must be uploaded free on to the competition's official website. Shetty says the game will catch on. 'Test cricket is like the marathon, one-day is middle distance but T20 is the 100 metres,' he says. If the public could pick one event, the sprint is the one they would watch, he claims. 'The world of cricket is waking up to giving people what they want,' Sharma says. 'Very few now appreciate a ball "well left". The bulk of people are watching it for excitement and that is centred on a great catch or a big shot. Anything that's exciting, energetic and vigorous.'  'It's only a matter of time before it becomes part of the international calendar,' Shetty says. 'It is crowded but you already have T20 in England and the same is true of the West Indies.'  Sharma claims that plans for a Champions League-style tournament, made up of domestic champions from New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, India and England, are still on track, despite that crowded international calendar. 'This year may be difficult, but it will definitely happen next year.' In the meantime, the global attention focused on the Indian league is a source of national pride. A retired 70-year-old engineer at Monday's Bangalore game, who will not give his name, sums up the feelings of many of his compatriots. 'All this excitement. All this money. And to think they call us a developing country!' 