 Thanks heavens for the IPL. The advent of the Indian jamboree is, inevitably, going to be a catalyst for change. So we may be spared many more fixtures like this. Here was the perennial example of English cricket shooting itself in the foot by starting the season so early. What a glorious opportunity for the photographers to snatch pictures of deserted stands and the occasional anorak. What an easy contrast with the hordes in Bangalore and Delhi. How daft the game looks. It is possible to argue - and they would do so vigorously at Old Trafford and The Oval - that this fixture is cricket's equivalent of Manchester United playing Chelsea. Here are two clubs, cash rich and sprinkled with stars - Andrew Flintoff and Mark Ramprakash - household names and quality cricketers. Surrey versus Lancashire is indeed an appetising prospect, but not in the middle of April. If it was not raining here over the past four days, it was freezing cold. Not even the appearance of Flintoff at the crease on Friday could empty the bars - actually they were crammed full, but no one was going to relinquish their warm seat during his 23-ball cameo. I know it can rain at any time in this country, but let us give ourselves a chance. It may be that the IPL will trigger changes that allow the English season to start and finish at a sensible time of year with a rational amalgam of competitions, though my confidence that this will ever happen diminishes by the day. Look at the latest speculation from India about the Twenty20 Champions League. It has been suggested that it might take place in England (oh, good) in October (oh, no). Those overseeing the game in India and England are potent men, but not even they can control the weather. Yet. Cricket in England in October during the football season is a lunatic idea. There has been an increasingly frenzied reaction to the IPL in the past week. We have the prospect of a £20million winner-take-all match in the Caribbean, which might cheer up England's grounded 'stars', as well as all sorts of schemes to reinvent Twenty20 in England, and to overhaul the domestic schedule. Around the counties, the perception is that the Championship somehow has to be reduced. No one seems too bothered that we may be left with a lopsided competition, whose integrity is badly compromised. Imagine a Premier League where one side can play Derby twice, while another has to play Manchester United twice. However, do not let anyone dare to tamper with the Pro40. That is deemed to be 'commercially attractive' so has to stay. To my uncommercial eye, it seems obvious that the English domestic schedule should mirror what takes place at international level: three competitions encompassing first-class cricket, Twenty20 and 50-over matches. This is a format that is easy to understand, in which integrity challenges commercial expediency - for a change. The counties argue that 40-over cricket is more popular than the 50-over game, but the main reason for this is that the Friends Provident starts today when it is freezing and the kids are back at school. The Pro40 takes place in August when you can wear a T-shirt and the kids are on holiday. With three competitions, albeit with a Twenty20 tournament that is jazzed up, expanded, creaking with superstars and highly lucrative, we might not have to play one of the most alluring county fixtures of the season in the middle of April. What form will the enhanced Twenty20, likely to be introduced in 2010, take? No one knows, but there has been much talk of six or eight 'city-based' teams, all emanating, curiously enough, from the cities. If you sense a whiff of altruism from those at The Oval or Lord's as they offer up their ever-expanding arenas, then you are mistaken. Understandably, they want to grow bigger, stronger and to dwarf the rest. Surrey boasted a £720,000 profit last year and an annual turnover of more than £23m. It is inevitable that cricket will come to emulate football, so that those with the money always win. But it would be good to ward off that day for as long as possible. It is one of cricket's current virtues that a relatively small club, such as Sussex, can win trophies. Money is not yet a guarantee of success. City-based teams might generate more money, but that would leave great swathes of the country as a cricketing desert. The one trump card the counties have at their disposal is that they already have a bedrock of support. On Friday, the ECB's chief executive, David Collier, made reassuring noises for the counties, but the atmosphere at present is so febrile that nothing can be ruled out. Meanwhile, at The Oval there was a futile wait for the clouds to shift. They never did. Flintoff seemed satisfied with his return. Ankle permitting, he will recover his bowling faster than his batting. He has reduced bowling to a simple, mechanical process. Batting is a more refined operation. The juices were flowing on Friday; there were three consecutive boundaries and he looked hungry. But Flintoff needs more time at the crease before he resumes at number six for England. He could also do with a warm sun on his back. Oddly enough, we have to wait until summer for that. 