 Why not stick all these in your toolbar favourites? You can follow our cricket team here and on Twitter: David Hopps, Andy Wilson, Andy Bull, Barney Ronay and Steve Busfield Preamble Your top team today: Alan Gardner will be watching Middx v Gloucs, Paul Rees is at Glamorgan v Derbyshire.  A preview of all the counties can be found here. You can find full fixture lists for the season here. You can follow the action throughout the season here. Video highlights are here. There's also county cricket commentaries on BBC local radio here. County tables can be found here: Division One and Division Two. 11.06am: Good morning from Uxbridge, writes Alan Gardner, where some puffy white clouds are drifting across a bright blue sky. The drive out here takes you past the Hoover building in west London and if there's one thing that's certain, yesterday sucked for Andrew Strauss. His seven-ball two means the questions about his batting will not be going away - though his team-mates may yet succeed in giving him another crack out in the middle. With Chris Rogers, unbeaten on 125, holding the innings together, Middlesex will resume on 283-7, still 27 runs short of averting the follow-on. There promises to be a tense first 45 minutes of play as Rogers and Tim Murtagh attempt to scrape the score past 309. Gloucestershire's Jon Lewis said to me last night that the visitors are still eyeing victory, and docking the tail as quickly as possible is their target. Lewis reckons the spin of JackTaylor, who took two wickets yesterday, may come into play on a slightly wearing pitch. Whatever happens in the morning session, Strauss will probably bat again today, either early on should Middlesex fail in their first objective, or later this afternoon if Gloucestershire manage to set a target (and the rain stays away). Though on the England Test captain's current form, the cherry might like another bite at him, rather than the other way round. 11.08am: Fair conditions in Cardiff and it is set fair for Derbyshire, who are in sight of their first away victory in the Championship since the beginning of last season, writes Paul Rees. Glamorgan resume on 250-7, 96 ahead, and the weather will not come to their salvation. Mark Wallace is unbeaten on 66 with Graeme Wagg, who joined from Derbyshire at the end of last season, unbeaten on eight. It was Derbyshire who cost Glamorgan promotion last season in the last round of Championship matches. The Welsh county needed to win to join Sussex in the first division, but ended up getting the worst of a draw. That prompted manoeuvring behind the scenes that left Glamorgan without a head coach, captain and president. The last three days suggest that not much has changed.  Glamorgan's plight deepened in the first over of the morning. Wallace had hit Tim Groenewald for three through mid on which brought Wagg on strike. He shuffled across his stumps looking to play the ball down to fine leg and was given out leg before. 253-8 12.07pm: Wallace lasted until Groenewald's following over when, on 70, he poked at a rising delivery outside his off-stump and was caught behind by Luke Sutton, leaving Glamorgan on 262-9, writes Paul Rees. The tail wagged, even if Wagg didn't. Dean Cosker and Will Owen punctuated bouts of playing and missing with edges, pulls and flicks that found the boundary, although when Owen found the furthest part of cow corner he had to run his four. The pair had added 21 when Cosker offered no shot to a delivery from Tony Palladino that nipped back and hit his off-stump, 25 minutes after the start of play.  It left Derbyshire needing 130 to win off 88 overs. Although the Glamorgan batsmen left the field with a black cloud above their heads, it was more symbolic than a sign of the weather coming to the home side's aid. 12.09pm: Despite Tim Murtagh's dismissal from the ninth ball of the morning, lbw to Lewis, the early wicket didn't precipitate a Middlesex collapse, writes Alan Gardner. With Anthony Ireland blocking and leaving diligently, Rogers steadily accumulated runs, despite the spread field. The follow-on targetwas reached in the 11th over of the morning when Ireland removed the handbrake and whacked the offspinner Taylor to the boundary. Rogers, meanwhile, is closing on his 150 and the drama now switches from the prospect of Strauss batting imminently to the dilemma of what to have for lunch. 12.30pm: Rogers misses out on that next milestone, writes Alan Gardner, quickly brushing away crumbs, bowled when having a swish at David Payne. Commentator's curse and all that. Payne then castled Ireland in the same over to bring the Middlesex innings to a swift end for 325. With a lead of 134, Gloucestershire have the opportunity to rattle up 150 or so and have a dash at the hosts' top order - which means you know you coming back out to the crease. There are, however, showers forecast and the clouds have begun to turn gunship grey overhead. The possibility that neither of the teams wants to gift the other points in pursuit of victory themselves may also promote conservatism when it comes to a declaration. Incidentally, I was told on the gate that it's free to get in today - though as Middlesex haven't won a championship game here since 1995, that might be a hard sell, even for the locals. 1.32pm: Derbyshire's modest target became slightly more daunting when James Harris removed Wayne Madsen with the second ball of the innings, writes Paul Rees, finding the edge of the bat through away movement. Ben Wright took a smart catch at second slip. Harris and Wagg took careful watching. Martin Guptill, the New Zealander playing his second Championship match for Derbyshire, eventually got the measure of Harris, ruthless on anything even slightly overpitched. His problem was finding support at the other end. Chesney Hughes scratched around for a couple, surviving a loud leg before appeal by Wagg before lobbing his former colleague to mid-on. Wes Durston, a centurion in his side's first innings, started where he had left off before playing across to Will Owen and being given out leg before. Derbyshire were 75-3 at that stage and in some comfort with Guptill having reached his half-century with a six over long-on off Jim Allenby. Lunch became slightly more digestible for Glamorgan when Dan Redfern's leading edge off Owen in the final over before the break found Gareth Rees at mid-on, but at 85-4 Derbyshire were only 45 runs away from victory with Guptill unbeaten on 54. 1.51pm: The match between Middlesex and Gloucestershire remains neatly poised at lunch, writes Alan Gardner, with Tim Murtagh taking three for 16 from his six overs to check the visitors' attempts to crack on and set a target. Gloucs are 57-3 and the lead is currently 191, with potentially 67 overs left in the day. Conditions overhead look a little Benny Goodman (that is, swinging), so Jon Lewis might fancy another nip at his old England mucker Strauss at some point this afternoon. 2.32pm: Derbyshire needed only 32 minutes after lunch to claim their second Championship victory of the season and move out of the bottom three, writes Paul Rees. Glamorgan remain in fourth, although they have now lost more games than they have won. Glamorgan opened after lunch with the left-arm spin of Dean Cosker, but he was sent to all parts of the off-side by the left-handed Ross Whiteley. Guptill was reduced to a supporting role, dealing with Owen who managed to find some spite in an otherwise easy-paced wicket.Guptill appropriately hit the winning runs. Five were needed when he sent a delivery from Cosker over mid-wicket and into the stand. He finished unbeaten on 70, smote of 72 deliveries, while Whiteley's impatient 30 off 34 headed off fears of middle-order panic. 2.58pm: Shelling peas is supposedly easy but Andrew Strauss has shown a flair for shelling catches in this match, writes Alan Gardner. Having dropped Chris Dent and Ian Cockbain on Monday, he let a chance from Richard Coughtrie slip through his fingers shortly after lunch today, as his trip to find form out in Uxbridge continued to make the Darien scheme look like a brilliant idea. The edge came off the bowling of Steven Crook, who had earlier dismissed the first innings centurion, Cockbain, for eight, bowled by a delivery that left two stumps lying on the ground. A few overs later, Coughtrie could only divert a good-length delivery towards first slip but, perhaps with his mind elsewhere, Strauss's fingers groped unsuccessfully, the ball squeezing through with enough pace to run away for four. Had he clung on, that would have left Gloucestershire on 79-5 and wobbling but with Kane Williamson batting positively on the way to 50 from 64 balls, there's still the prospect of Middlesex being put in before tea. The Glosters hundred came up with a more authentic four from Coughtrie in the 24th over and the lead is now 251. 4.08pm: The suspicion that Gloucestershire are hoping to get away early as they have a Twenty20 match in Bristol tomorrow has been fuelled by the confirmation that there will be no declaration at tea, writes Alan Gardner. Williamson batted positively for his 73 but when he was out with the score on 159, thelead was 293 and there would have been potentially 39 overs in which to tryand dismiss Middlesex for a second time - ideal declaration country, youwould have thought. But on Gloucestershire batted, to the point where theyare 197-6, 331 ahead, safety first apparently the modus operandi. Should Messrs Taylor and Gidman continue to make merry (their partnership is currently worth 30 from 25 balls) there can be the expectation of handshakes all round in about an hour's time. So, it appears Strauss won't have to contend with another examination of his technique/state of mind in this match after all. 5.08pm: They've shaken hands on a draw at Uxbridge, writes Alan Gardner, where the only notable action of the final session was an over of left-arm, er, medium from Strauss. A beamer nearly took Ian Saxelby's head off (and some of the crowd probably wouldn't have minded if it had, given the Glosters' negativity) but there was to be no return to the crease for England's Test captain, who now has just one more opportunity to find his form, in a tour match for Somerset against India in two weeks' time. 