If you had a time machine that was to be used solely for the purpose of watching cricket matches, which players would you want to see in the flesh? By Gary Naylor for the 99.94 Cricket Blog, part of the Guardian Sport Network 
 What if those temps were suddenly not perdus? What if you had your own Time Machine and chose not to fast forward to the time of the Morlocks and the Eloi but went back to see some cricket. What would you dial up and who would you watch? I found myself contemplating that very question and came up with these men. How did he do the things he did? Why didn’t anyone else? Could anybody be that bolshie? What were the reactions of opponents? Of team-mates? Would today’s video analysts have worked him out? Was it better to attack or defend; play forward or back; knock him off a length? Which of today’s bowlers could bowl his variety of deliveries? We catch a glimpse of the man in this superb piece by Peter Gibbs in Wisden 2012, but to have seen the man in action would have been a thrill beyond measure. How did he behave in the field? What was the crowd’s reaction to him and his to the crowd? How did he command the total loyalty of the working class professionals but gain the enmity of many of those of his own class among the amateurs and administrators? How did he deploy his riches of fast bowling talent? How did he behave off the field, in public and in private? (As an aside, how would the Bodyline Tour play out today? Same tactics, same scorecards, same players – an exact rerun, as if replayed by 22 Pierre Menards – but with today’s media, Twitter and with the knowledge of the West Indies attack of the 1980s? There’s a book there – perhaps). Fearfully fast, but an intellectual, fitting the stereotype of the amateur batsman more than the professional speedster. What made him so quick? Why was so strong a man so fragile – though plenty have been before and plenty since? How did he fit into a dressing room still divided between gentlemen and players? How did he tour – presumably not complaining of having done the poverty and the elephants? How did the Australian public see him, a generation, and a war, after Larwood? How would he measure up against Shane Warne? What did he learn in all those years before getting his chance in Test cricket? How did he keep going under the Australian sun well into middle-age? What would he say about today’s spinners, especially their roles in one day cricket? What would he make of DRS? How did he cope with the extraordinary changes underway in West Indian politics and society which he, to some extent, exemplified? How did he provoke such widespread love and respect? How did he play under that pressure and still deliver such fantastic performances? What would he have thought of the imperious West Indies sides that followed his – teams he never saw having been so cruelly taken from us at the age of 42! How would a conversation run between him and Sachin Tendulkar, two men who, in Virat Kohli’s unforgettable phrase, had carried the burden of a nation? Yep, I know. I saw a lot of him anyway, but knowing what we know now, how good would it be to watch the whole career, every ball, the ups and downs, the batsmen spun out, the batsmen talked out and the umpires worn out one more time? Or twice. Or thrice… Just how could anyone play as well as he did in 2005, and still lose? In fact – did that all happen? If Doctor Faustus is at a loose end and wants to offer me these six wishes in return for my soul, I’m listening. • This is an article from our Guardian Sport Network• This article appeared first on The 99.4 Cricket Blog• Follow Gary Naylor on Twitter 