 Mal Loye wore a trilby at mid-on for the last over before this Roses slog was finally allowed to expire as a draw, summing up the farce to which it had descended after tea. For Yorkshire, this was a gloriously dull day, as they batted on and on until there was no prospect of a result - and then batted some more. The ease with which they did so highlighted a worrying lack of penetration in Lancashire's bowling attack, explaining why they might consider bringing Muttiah Muralitharan back to Manchester for the final stages of their championship push. Now that Stuart Law has a British passport, Lancashire have been operating all season with a single overseas player - initially Brad Hodge, who was replaced by Nathan Astle in late June. Astle is signed up until the end of the season but Lancashire are still awaiting clearance to sign a replacement for Hodge who attends Australia's pre-Ashes training camp in Queensland next week. Lancashire's chief executive Jim Cumbes confirmed this week that Murali is "in the frame" which is not surprising given his remarkable record of 152 wickets at an average of 15.05 in three previous stints at Old Trafford, with 10 wickets or more in six of his 20 first-class appearances for the club. He has international commitments with Sri Lanka until the end of the month but would be available for Lancashire's last two championship matches, at home to Durham and then the trip to their title rivals Hampshire and a potential showdown with Shane Warne. How they could have used him here. Yorkshire resumed some way from safety on 191 for two, with a lead of 95, but by the time Gary Keedy ended Craig White's six-hour vigil, Lancashire seemed to have given up any hopes of pressing for a win. There was a brief flurry of activity either side of lunch as Steven Patterson was bowled for an admirable 46, some 32 more than the young seamer from Hull has ever managed for Yorkshire's second team, then Darren Lehmann and Gerard Brophy holed out in the space of four deliveries from Oliver Newby. Lehmann's dismissal removed any chance of Yorkshire scoring quickly enough to consider a declaration, leaving Michael Lumb to help himself to a half century against an increasingly exhausted Lancashire attack. They did take the maximum 12 points for a draw, leaving them 11 ahead of the previous leaders Sussex, while Yorkshire's 10 points do little to ease their relegation fears. 