 Wherever England look, the gloom is intensifying. They are fast coming to terms with the horrifying realisation that they must defend the Ashes in Australia this winter, and then go to the World Cup that follows, with the same ramshackle side that has been increasingly embarrassed by Sri Lanka this summer.  Their absent captain, Michael Vaughan, will hold doleful discussions with not one, but three, Yorkshire and England physiotherapists today, as he accepts that the surgery on his knee after he returned from the Pakistan tour last December has been a failure, and that another operation is inevitable. Ashley Giles is heading to the United States for another diagnosis on his hip complaint, an operation on his hip and then his groin having failed to arrest fears that his career as a bowler could be over. Simon Jones has already visited the States for a last-ditch attempt to heal the knee that has ruled him out of Ashes series.  Duncan Fletcher bore the look of a man force-fed some particularly unpalatable medicine. "I have adopted an attitude that it will be a huge bonus if they do come back," he said. "That's why we have to go with these other players and get them ready for later on in the winter."  About the best news that Fletcher could summon was that "Andrew Flintoff has lost quite a lot of weight". Even that begged the question about why he had been allowed to become overweight in the first place. The fact that Flintoff has been "working hard in the gym" offers no certainties that his left ankle will stand up to a Test series against Pakistan.  Vaughan's rehabilitation was gradually exposed as fruitless as soon as he returned to action. His initial return against Scotland went well and tempted him to imagine a return in the NatWest Series. But the twinges of pain have gradually worsened, the ice-pack treatment has increased, and his absences from the field have grown.  Now his only realistic choice is which operation to choose. The most conservative operation would be simply to clean up the joint, which would require 10 weeks' rehabilitation and would theoretically leave him available to lead England in the Ashes. But his fitness would be unproven and the sight of Vaughan limping through the early matches, still unsure whether the operation had been a success, would cause desperate disruption.  The second option would be to repair "a hole on the knee joint", which would result in a nine-month lay-off. Whether Vaughan would also travel to the States is unclear, but on current evidence it seems unwise to trust a specialist's report in England for anything much more complex than an ingrowing toenail.  With this Ashes side collapsing before his eyes, Fletcher stubbornly shows as much loyalty as he can muster to their replacements. "We kept it quite simple, but they didn't bowl to the plan," he said. "We just wanted them to go in and bowl straight. None of the bowlers seemed able to do that. I still think it is a mental thing. They don't bowl that badly in the nets. You have to reassure individuals that it just takes one game to turn it around." 