 An Australian XI will play England in the remote outback town of Alice Springs in a change to the scheduled Ashes tour after Canberra was unable to host the fixture. The England squad will travel into the Northern Territory on a charter flight after the first Test in Brisbane in November to play the Australian Chairman's XI before flying to Adelaide to prepare for the second Test which starts 5 December. "We are excited about … the opportunity to bring elite cricket to the Red Centre," said the Cricket Australia marketing spokesman, Andrew Ingleton. "When we were informed that Canberra could not host this year's Chairman's XI fixture, we wanted to bring the match to an iconic part of Australia. Alice Springs, set against the backdrop of the MacDonnell Ranges, is an iconic part of our great country and an ideal setting for the game." Traeger Park in Alice Springs hosted the Imparja Cup for indigenous teams this year and was selected for the Chairman's XI match because the regular venue at Manuka Oval in the capital, Canberra, will be under renovation at the time. Australia play England in 10 consecutive Ashes Tests this year, with the series in England beginning on 10 July at Trent Bridge. The match will take place from 29-30 November in Alice Springs where average November maximum temperatures hover around 34C. It is one of five non-Test tour matches England will play in Australia, starting against a Western Australia XI at Perth on 31 October. The town last hosted an international team in 2000, when West Indies took on a provincial team. "It's been 13 years since Traeger Park hosted an international cricket team and I'm delighted this drought will now be broken in November," said Northern Territory's tourism minister, Matt Conlan. "The Ashes is one of the biggest events in Australian sport and for Alice Springs to have a slice of the action in between the first and second Tests of this highly anticipated series is incredibly exciting." Australia have staged Test matches and limited-overs internationals against Bangladesh and Sri Lanka during winter in the Northern Territory capital of Darwin, but the regular wet season makes it difficult to schedule cricket in the coastal city. 