 Andrew Flintoff received a dose of his own medicine from Michael Lumb last night as his Lancashire team were soundly drubbed to the delight of Yorkshire's biggest crowd for more than a decade. Flintoff's second appearance since his latest ankle problem generated a 15,000 sell-out on a sunny evening, and he gave good value to the crowd by top-scoring with 47 from 28 balls in a largely clueless Lancashire batting performance. But after recording rare Twenty20 Cup figures of three for four in three overs in his first bowl for a month against Nottinghamshire at Old Trafford on Sunday, the England all-rounder was given a reality check by Lumb, who hit four, four and six off consecutive deliveries in his second over to drive him out of the attack. Lumb, the 26-year-old left-hander who toured with England A three years ago, raced on to a 23-ball fifty, as Craig White scored only eight in an opening stand of 73. Lumb ended unbeaten on 84 from 49 balls as Yorkshire completed a Twenty20 Roses double with 6.2 overs to spare . Earlier Flintoff, who thumped 10 from two scoring shots in the first innings of his comeback at the weekend, came in at the fall of Lancashire's first wicket - Nathan Astle leg-before to Jason Gillespie for a five-ball duck - and started with a forward defensive that skimmed to deep cover for a single. That positive first impression was confirmed in the fourth over bowled by Deon Kruis, as Flintoff flicked and pulled a pair of sixes over square leg, and also advanced down the pitch to slog a four over wide mid-on. There were four more fours after that, the best of them a delicate late cut off Anthony McGrath. But with the exception of Steven Croft, a 21-year-old from Blackpool who made an intelligent 21, Flintoff received little support, and in the 14th over smashed a full toss straight back at Richard Dawson, who took a stinging return catch to leave Lancashire on 92 for five. They never threatened to recover, as Dawson and Darren Lehmann shared five for 40 in eight overs of spin. It was the first time in three years that Lancashire have failed to reach the Twenty20 Cup finals' day. But with Flintoff available to boost their county championship challenge in Kent next week as he continues his convalescence, no-one at Old Trafford will lose much sleep over that fact. 