 First an explanation, if at first sight this ODI series appears to be overkill, and it relates directly to England's dreadful preparations for World Cups past and a desire to rectify matters. Hitherto, a World Cup has tended to follow an Ashes series: next year, 10 Tests in a row between England and Australia, five at home and five away, will break the cycle, leaving preparation clear in 2015, in which England have negotiated a five-match ODI series in Australia, immediately before the World Cup in that country. It makes absolute sense. The payback, though, is a reciprocal series in England first, not because there is a statutory bilateral obligation, but as an exercise in back-scratching: Australia, in the process of regenerating their one-day team, will be contesting the Champions Trophy in this country next summer and in the same way have been given the opportunity to gain some experience in English conditions. If it seems onerous now, then three years hence it may be viewed as one of the best deals England could have made. Besides which, familiarity does not appear to have dampened the enthusiasm for watching any contest between these two sides and there are some early points to be scored. Australia, rebuilding or not, are the No1-ranked side and given the steady but unspectacular progress made by England this year it seems almost anomalous that the unlikely event of a 5-0 whitewash by Alastair Cook's side would elevate them to the unprecedented position of topping the rankings in all three forms of the game. This is sure to be a much more challenging series than that against West Indies which, with the return of their IPL stars, promised rather more than it delivered. Already Australia have laid down strong markers with Brett Lee's opening over of the tour in Ireland and their subsequent demolition of Essex. They have some strong batsmen, with a first sight of David Warner to look forward to, and the versatile wicketkeeper-batsman Matthew Wade at seven. The sight of Lee striding in has always been one of the great spectacles of cricket, and age appears not to have diminished his pace unduly in the short forms of the game. At the opposite end of the spectrum comes the young paceman James Pattinson – whose brother Darren played for England – a protege of the England bowling coach, David Saker. England's strategy, which worked well against West Indies, is to hark back to the early days of one-day cricket, before the allrounder became common currency. They will again field their Test bowling attack with the addition of Steven Finn, who is more valued in ODI matches than in Tests. Herein lies the England weakness, for batting Tim Bresnan at seven in a 50-over match is a big ask and as Shane Watson has pointed out, without wishing to diminish Bresnan's value as an excellent cricketer, it places a heavy responsibility on the top order. Here Cook will be hoping to continue the progress he has made in ODIs, particularly since taking on the captaincy, and to further establish the opening partnership he has formed with Ian Bell since the one-day retirement of Kevin Pietersen. The position of Craig Kieswetter remains a tenuous one. His glovework has improved but he has shown few signs that his batting has developed sufficiently beyond the demands of T20 to hold down a place in ODI cricket, or indeed any further in T20. England have invested in him and given him every opportunity, but this series may be make or break. If Jonny Bairstow's keeping makes any sort of progress, he may find himself gloveman in the shortest form at least, in which case, one wonders how long England will be able to resist the lure of Ireland's Paul Stirling at the top of the T20 order. 