 These two sides are going to see a lot of another from now on. On Wednesday the fastest five-Test series ever gets under way at Nottingham. It will only last seven weeks with barely time to catch breath in between matches. In the winter of 2015-16 England will undertake another five-Test series in India, their first since 1984-85. This may be the pattern of the future. There will be long, hopefully lucrative Test series among the Big Three and shorter, less lucrative ones with the rest, though it is scarcely possible to milk Ashes series any more vigorously than they have been recently. So let us hope that the England and India sides are well-matched and they do not become too grumpy with one another. Grumpiness becomes more likely with the absence of the Decision Review System, which India unilaterally decline to use, and so will not be in operation throughout this series. There is a mild irony here since Duncan Fletcher, India’s coach, was among the first to shape and advocate the system. Forgetting the possibility of improving the number of correct decisions, the DRS can also defuse incendiary situations. It was noticeable that when a “catch” by Kumar Sangakkara at slip was turned down by the third umpire at Headingley, the players of both sides simply shrugged their shoulders and moved on. That is the modern way; in the past such an incident would have prompted major ructions. Most players understand and accept the procedures. Stuart Broad has recalled how the absence of the DRS in the 2011 series against India favoured England and allowed him a hat-trick at Trent Bridge – “my second wicket [an lbw] was a big inside edge”. Moreover, modern umpires will be increasingly uneasy about the absence of the DRS safety net. They have come to rely on the system to correct their mistakes and are now more comfortable with that backup. This summer it will be demonstrated once again how a bad call changes the course of the match, which is far worse for the umpire than the mild humiliation of having to reverse an incorrect decision. In the past we may have maligned Sachin Tendulkar over the DRS; the assumption was that because he disapproved of the system so did his board, but the BCCI retains its stance even though Tendulkar has retired. Mind you, if India decide they wish to revert to playing with two stumps, then that would probably be tolerated. In cricket politics the equation is simple: might is right, where might equals money. At Nottingham both sides have plenty of reasons for apprehension. Three years ago India were thrashed in all four Tests; this time they have only three players out of a massive 18-strong tour party who have played Test cricket in this country. Meanwhile England, their side in flux, still have the shadow of a traumatic winter hanging over them. England’s selectors have done the easy bit. Once they decided that there was nothing to be gained by picking a specialist spinner alongside Moeen Ali, they have simply added Ben Stokes to the squad chosen for the two Tests against Sri Lanka. So there are six pace bowlers, of which we assume only four will play at Trent Bridge. They have justified this by outlining a plan to have all six pacemen present to discuss strategies and tactics for the series. Now the choice of the final XI, which will be much trickier, rests with the captain and the coach. In essence it is a case of “Over to you. And jolly good luck” from the selectors, although the input of Mick Newell at his home ground should be significant. The likeliest outcome is that Stokes will replace Chris Jordan, leaving Chris Woakes on the sidelines despite his excellent county form. Stokes was so obviously a Test cricketer in Australia that he surely has to be in the team somehow, batting above Matt Prior. The unlikeliest solution would be to drop a batsman, which would not be easy since all except the captain have been scoring runs, and to bat Stokes at six leaving Alastair Cook with a plethora of pace bowlers (five of them) plus Ali. Perhaps this ploy might be saved for later in the series when the bowlers are really tired. There has been talk of “rotating” the pacemen, a concept that is seldom embraced with any enthusiasm by the players. It is certainly the case that Jimmy Anderson and Broad would be incandescent not to play at Trent Bridge, since both have excellent records there. It would also be remarkable to omit Liam Plunkett at Nottingham since he took nine wickets in the second Test against Sri Lanka. However, for his recall to be prolonged Plunkett may have to demonstrate that he can, when required, bowl to a fuller length from over the wicket as well as propelling his modern form of bodyline from round the wicket. Currently the downside for Plunkett is this: if the pitch is seamer-friendly then a more conventional paceman, such as Jordan or Woakes, could easily be preferred. If it is lifeless, flat and true, then Plunkett’s aggressive round-the-wicket attack becomes more attractive. Hence he is in danger of only getting the nod on batsmen-friendly pitches, a state of affairs that does not do much for the long-term career prospects of any Test fast bowler. After their two middle practices at Leicester and Derby it is tough to assess an Indian side that Fletcher eagerly casts as inexperienced outsiders in this series. There is obvious talent in their batting lineup, especially if the sun continues to shine; their pace bowlers look less convincing (though the same conclusion may well have been reached when assessing the Sri Lankans). Ravi Ashwin, assuming he is selected, will be the most accomplished spinner on parade at Nottingham. With England, runs for Cook are high on the wish list. Ravi Shastri, the BCCI-employed broadcaster and former Indian all-rounder, has said: “If you have the leader under pressure, always go for him.” He also offered this consoling observation for the plight of any beleaguered England captain: “At least over here you don’t have stones being thrown at your houses.” 