 6.55pm Notts were bowled out here for 388, a good effort after being put in, writes Paul Weaver. To justify a "put-in" the bowling side should really bowl out their opponents for about 250 but only briefly looked capable of that here today, at the start and just after lunch. Read went on to score his century from 132 balls, with 16 fours, his third century of the season and the 15th of his career. He had scored 110 by the time he lost his middle stump to Tahir, swishing across the line. But by then he was running out of partners. Samit Patel and Mark Ealham had already gone. And when Read was eighth out at 366 he was followed, in the next over, by Andre Adams, who hit a bruising 32. In the nine overs available to them, Warwickshire scored 24 without loss. 4.30pm We've had a most entertaining afternoon session in Nottingham, writes Paul Weaver, with the home side whistling along at more than five an over for most of the time despite the clatter of wickets. They resumed on 136 for three after lunch and at tea they are 291 for six after 64 overs. Chris Read, Notts' leading scorer before this match, is 82 not out and Mark Ealham is unbeaten on 29. Warwickshire will be disappointed because they had the upper hand when Sreesanth took two wickets in four balls in the second over after the break. Adam Voges had added just one to his lunchtime score when, driving, he was caught at backward point. Ali Brown was out fourth ball without scoring, edging the bowler to Rikki Clarke at second slip. Both wickets fell at 141 but Read and Samit Patel then took the score to 224 before Patel was lbw in front of leg stump to Clarke for 47, an innings which came from 74 balls and included seven fours. 2.45pm Well would you Adam and Eve it, Key is out, leg before to Andrew Hall for 90, writes Richard Rae. Well bowled by Hall – after a series of out-swingers, he pitched one up and swung it back in – but Key was understandably furious with himself. He was looking to on-drive, and was on the move rather – lost concentration, really. A big hundred today, and people are talking – now? 1.45pm Kent are 104 for three at lunch (Key 56, Sam Northeast yet to score), and Key, for what it is worth, has played extremely well, writes Richard Rae. Watchful when he's had to be, very few false shots, and timed his drives and pulls beautifully. What this tells us is debatable, of course. Picking off Panesar and Boje on a good track at Wantage Road being rather different to fronting up to the quartet of Aussie seamers at The Oval – but he's clearly determined to make a big score, and give the selectors something to talk about. Panesar got a wicket in his eight overs, but what a wicket. Martin Van Jaarsveld, who had hit him for one six, drove firmly. The ball hit Stephen Peters fielding at silly mid-off, and stayed in the air long enough for Alex Wakely to dive forward from cover and hold the catch. They all count, I suppose. 1.20pm We've had an entertaining morning session in Nottingham which has ended with the home side 136 for three after 29 overs, writes Paul Weaver. There was scarcely a cloud in the sky at nine this morning but it had clouded over by 10.30am and it was this, perhaps, that persuaded Warwickshire to bowl when they won the toss. Not that the ball needs much encouragement to swing here. There was certainly some movement for Naqaash Tahir, from the pavilion end, and he reduced Notts to 43 for three in the first hour, all by himself. In the fourth over, with the score on nine, Tahir had Scott Newman lbw as the batsman lunged forward. It was 32 for two in the tenth when Matt Wood attempted to drive the same bowler but edged to Ian Westwood in the gully. Tahir took his third wicket in the 14th over when he bowled Mark Wagh with a delivery which nipped back to defeat the batsman's defensive stroke. But Adam Voges was admirably unimpressed with all this. He drove firmly and twice pulled Boyd Rankin for six on his way to 67 not out at the interval. He reached his fifty from only 60 balls, with ten fours, and he was well supported by Samit Patel, who is 24 not out. 12.20pm Owais Shah has come and gone already at Lord's, writes Andy Bull, as if his case for inclusion in the final Test wasn't already underwhelming enough. He mustered only eight ugly runs before being undone by Graham Napier, playing across the line. He had been lucky to get that far, having edged his third ball just short of Alastair Cook at second slip. Napier has bowled well since coming on as first change, and also had Nick Compton caught by Ravi Bopara, diving forwards at cover. Sam Robson is still easing his way through the morning, and he has now been joined by Eoin Morgan, yet another batsman who the selectors have flirted with and then foresaken.   12.10pm Rob Key 19 not out, and apparently settling down for a long knock at Northampton, reports Richard Rae. Kent have lost Joe Denly, caught at second slip off David Lucas, for 15. Denly played three glorious shots to remind us that not so long ago he was being talked about in England terms, and perhaps will be again before long. Hang on – Monty's on! Bowling the 18th over of the day! And Key's just stroked his the second ball effortlessly for six over long-off! 11.25am  Test selector Ashley Giles will not have the chance to assess the form of Graeme Swann in the match between Nottinghamshire and Warwickshire which has started at Trent Bridge, writes Paul Weaver. The England off-spinner pulled out of the game this morning with an upset stomach. "I just hope it's not swine flu," he said. But Giles, who is also Warwickshire's director of cricket, still had Ian Bell and Jonathan Trott to look at from within his own dressing-room, as well as Ryan Sidebottom in the Notts team. Warwickshire won the toss and elected to bowl. They broke through in the fourth over when, with the score on nine, Scott Newman lunged forward and was lbw to Naqaash Tahir. 11.15am Those with their minds on the Ashes will be waiting a little while longer yet for any exciting news from Lord's, writes Andy Bull. Unless, that is, Middlesex's Owais Shah can remind everyone of just why he was given an extended run in the Test team earlier this year. Essex's captain Mark Pettini won the toss and then chose to bat, so for now Alastair Cook and Ravi Bopara will be stuck out in the field. They may be there a long time too – Pettini's seems a strange decision given that the sun is out and Middlesex have taken 15 runs from the first two overs alone. It also denies Danesh Kaneria last use of the pitch. Five of those have come from Sam Robson, a 20-year-old from New South Wales, who has made a good impression during a stint playing in Australia over the last couple of winters. Robson is only marginally less unknown than the poor member of the Lord's ground staff I saw being accosted by two seedy-looking middle-aged autograph scalpers outside the media center. They waylaid the chap, who was clearly delighted, to get his signature, and then told him they didn't want it after all when they found out he wasn't playing today. 10.50am Good morning from Northampton, where I'm delighted to say the sun is cracking the flags, and that Kent won the toss and will bat, writes Richard Rae. Which of course means Robert William Trevor Key will step forth and make such an impression on England selector James Whitaker that his selection for the fifth Test will be unavoidable. There are of course many who would say the only way the portly Key should be allowed to make such an impression of Whitaker is by sitting on him, but let us not be cynical. The two men exchanged a brief handshake a few minutes ago, but no conversation took place. Rob has his serious face on this morning; the track looks very flat. It's a big chance for the big man. And just to say hope you're all well, and that it's great to be talking to followers of the blog again. 