 Lounging in a corner of The Oval's thrusting new OCS Stand, Chris Lewis looks pretty much how you might expect him to look eight years after his retirement from playing cricket. He looks like a slightly older Chris Lewis - Chris Lewis with a few grey hairs, but still with the same wonderfully athletic frame and the same awkward, twitchy energy. A succession of coaches may have spent large portions of the 1990s attempting to magic up that mouth-watering prospect, the mature Chris Lewis. Well, here he is. He may be 40 years old. But here he is all the same. Lewis's dramatic reappearance for a second stint on the Surrey staff has been one of the more unexpected obiter dicta of the county season so far. It's a signing completely out of left-field, but squint a little and it starts to make a bit more sense. This is, after all, one of the finest fielders in the world in his time; a sensationally gifted all-rounder who - despite an international career best described as messy - remains one of England's better one day bowlers; and a classy attacking lower order batsman with a Test hundred in India to his name. Initially signed as a Twenty20 all-rounder, Lewis ended up making his bow in the Friends Provident Trophy last week after an early-season injury crisis. Along with everyone else, his bowling went around the park a bit (final analysis: 6-0-51-0) in a high-scoring defeat by Middlesex. But 30 quick runs coming in at number nine hinted there might just be some more to come from the most youthful grizzled old-stager you're ever likely to meet. All the same, cricketers aren't supposed to reappear like this. There's something vaguely indecent about it. Perhaps it's just the sense of waste (a Lewis motif). This is a man, you feel, who really should have played more cricket. Surrey's returning all-rounder has been turning out for the odd match with Lashings, coaching school kids and generally loafing around bursting with preternatural athletic health for eight years now. Can he really just hope to turn it all back on again? "I'll try to play the same way," he says. "I'll run in and bowl as fast as I can and I'll be throwing myself around in the field. It's been a few years, so we'll see. But generally things are working pretty well." Lewis is certainly happy to be back at The Oval. He describes his first spell there as "the most enjoyable of my cricket career", a two-year stint in which he helped Surrey win the Sunday League in 1996 and the Benson & Hedges the following season. Lewis is keen to stress his domestic successes. Hardly surprising, really, when your England career has become emblematic of an entire era of unfulfilled potential and bonfired hopes. It's the kind of thing that might well drive a man to premature retirement. "People do get ideas about you," he says now. "It's always a funny thing when other people try to decide how good you should be. But that's just sport. It doesn't annoy me now. Perhaps it did when I was a little bit younger. "I think what always struck people is that I look pretty casual doing stuff. But that's not necessarily the case. I don't think you can become one of the better fielders in the England team, or in the world, if you're casual about what you do. You have to work hard to get there. It was just an impression I tended to give." It's a fair point about the burden of expectation. Lewis retired with better Test bowling and batting averages than, say, Ashley Giles. One will forever be known as a talent frittered away; the other praised as a dogged overachiever. Also illuminating is the comparison with Andrew Flintoff, another all-rounder burdened with oppressive levels of talent. When Lewis was dropped for the last time in 1996 he still had a better Test record than Flintoff at the same stage in his career. Perhaps things might have been different under a more sympathetic management regime, inside the Team England "bubble" erected by Duncan Fletcher. "I think I would have liked the atmosphere and the environment of how things work now," he says. "From the outside things look a lot more professional. It is just a different time and it's hard to compare. But I would say lot of things didn't happen then that are happening now. "There wasn't that much support and people were just expected to get on with it. It wasn't just me either. I've talked to David Capel many times about how he felt about his experiences." Lewis and Capel have something specific in common: the prolonged and terribly destructive quest for the new Ian Botham. Running right the way through from Phillip DeFreitas to the Hollioakes, a succession of budding all-rounders found their progress darkened by the Botham shadow. "Me and David had a chuckle about it actually," he says now. "It was just that sort of era where everything you did was compared to Botham. And unless you acquired Botham standards you were a failure. There didn't seem to be much time. You had to perform within a few Test matches. "People always tend to get better the longer they're out of playing. You look at the ones in the commentary box now - they never dropped a catch, they scored a hundred every time and Bob Willis did take ten wickets every time he went out to bowl." Perhaps with this in mind Lewis is rather more encouraging towards the current younger generation of England players. He singles out Stuart Broad ("his dad was there when I played at Notts - I used to see him out with his little bat") as a bowler who has impressed. Ian Bell, another talented but occasionally frustrating cricketer, is his tip to do well against South Africa later in the summer. From his own era with England Lewis is still in regular contact with Devon Malcolm and Gladstone Small, his two seam-bowling partners in his debut Test match. He's even godparent to one of Malcolm's children. The dying out of the Caribbean seam in England's Test team, particularly strong during his own career, is something Lewis has observed from afar in the last 10 years. He says: "It's sad in a way but you can see why it's happening. My generation were the children of immigrants. The generation who were here had come directly from the Caribbean and those immigrants taught their children cricket. The kids now are English. They play football. They haven't got that connection to the Caribbean. "When I was growing up the only game I ever played was cricket. Now it's football, basketball, baseball everywhere. But that's life. I suppose you could say with sport every dog has its day." Apparently so. And what's more, if you happen to be an unnaturally well-preserved 40-year-old fast-bowling all-rounder with a little bit left to give - you might just get another one. County Championship Division One results:Durham drew with Surrey at Chester-le-Street Lancashire drew with Somerset at Old TraffordSussex drew with Kent at HoveYorkshire beat Hampshire by an innings and 27 runs at Headingley. County Championship Division Two results:Derbyshire beat Essex by four wickets at the County GroundMiddlesex drew with Glamorgan at Lord'sWarwickshire beat Northamptonshire by two wickets at Wantage RoadWorcestershire drew with Leicestershire at New Road. Friends Provident Trophy results:Essex beat Sussex by 14 runs (D/L method) at ChelmsfordNottinghamshire beat Ireland by 56 runs at DublinMiddlesex beat Kent by six runs (D/L method) at Lord'sNorthamptonshire beat Warwickshire by four wickets at Wantage RoadLancashire beat Scotland by eight wickets at the GrangeYorkshire beat Derbyshire by 25 runs at HeadingleyTwo matches were abandoned. 