 As if they have not had enough salt in recent wounds, Aston Villa had their latest disappointment rubbed in by a Birmingham fan fulfilling his wish of scoring in front of the Holte End. Troy Deeney, having equalised against Manchester United last Saturday only to score a late own goal, experienced only unmitigated joy as he headed home the clinching goal against his old enemy. The Watford captain, who spurned a trial at Villa at the age of 15 and has a Birmingham City tattoo on his calf, scored his fourth goal in five games five minutes from the end of regulation time on a day when his team survived the loss of Heurelho Gomes to an initially worrying head injury that led to 10 minutes’ stoppage time. The Watford goalkeeper went for a scan before receiving the all-clear. Villa remain rooted to the foot of the Premier League as they equalled the divisional record of the lowest number of points from the first 14 games. No team have avoided relegation having had five points at this stage of the campaign. They also equalled a club record of 13 consecutive league games without a win and have not tasted victory at home in the league since May. Three games into Rémi Garde’s reign and Villa are still looking like relegation certainties. Deeney was a thorn in their side throughout and a pain in the backside to supporters who jeered him until he got the better of Ciaran Clark to make it 3-1 with Watford’s first headed goal of the season. He got booked for his exuberant celebrations in front of the Villa diehards. “I can’t explain how good that was,” he said. “Their fans gave me stick all the way through, which lets me know I am doing something right. I slid on my knees, everyone does that. It’s football, we get caught up in the emotion. I do not think I offended anyone – you should have heard what the crowd were saying to me! But I am thick-skinned and can take it. I’m more interested in taking three points.” Deeney’s partnership with Odion Ighalo continues to be so productive that Watford, despite losing their two previous games, are halfway to gaining sufficient points to stay up. The duo press so hard and so high and the rest of the team feed off this. “It is amazing the connection they have during the match,” Quique Sánchez Flores, the Watford manager, said. After Ighalo’s initial shot was saved superbly by Brad Guzan, the ball came back to him when Ben Watson’s shot deflected off Clark, and the Nigerian made the most of being played onside by Kieran Richardson to score his eighth goal of the season. Villa played their way back into the ascendancy and deserved to be in front before the interval. Pushing the full-backs very high, they created a plethora of chances although Carlos Sánchez’s poor touch and distribution from central defensive midfield left them vulnerable in the extreme. Before he scored late on, Jordan Ayew had three efforts when the game was in the balance, one in particular that he should have converted, while Scott Sinclair came inside and dispatched a dipping right-footed shot that Gomes tipped over in spectacular fashion before Villa equalised four minutes before the interval. Alan Hutton drove inside from wide on the right and, when he was tripped, Jordan Veretout chipped in for Richards – albeit from an offside position – to power in a header for his first goal for Villa. Richards celebrated wildly – the former England defender had accused his team-mates on the eve of the game of being too “nice” and eyeing their exit route should Villa be relegated. He couldn’t afford not to contribute in the most positive fashion. Despite dominating possession in the second half, Villa failed to continue creating such a sequence of clear chances and were undone on the counterattack. Watford defended deep and compactly and, even when they lost Gomes following a collision with Craig Cathcart, Villa could not unduly trouble Giedrius Arlauskis, the Lithuanian international keeper coming on to make his Premier League debut. Instead Watford pounced on the break. When Deeney attempted to play Ighalo in, Hutton inadvertently guided the ball past his own goalkeeper. Then after 85 minutes Deeney got his wish, heading home in front of the Holte End as Clark dawdled while awaiting Ighalo’s deflected shot to come down. Ayew blasted home to add tension to the 10 minutes of added time but Villa’s unwanted succession of records was extended, and there is little sense of them ending any time soon. “It is painful for my players to have this result,” said Garde. “I think we deserved better. But there were mistakes. We lack efficiency in both boxes and maybe we had a lack of patience because we knew it was important to win. Everybody has to improve their levels, and we can.” 