Watford thoroughly deserved their first victory over Manchester United for 30 years, sealed by late goals from Juan Zuniga and Troy Deeney 
 Peep peep! Watford beat Manchester United for the first time in 30 years, and the Premier League Crisis Baton is passed from Slaven Bilic to Jose Mourinho. With the usual exception of Marcus Rashford, United were a shambles. A Watford were superb and thoroughly deserved their win. Thanks for your company; I’ll leave you with this from Hubert O’Hearn: “I hope Des Kelly’s wearing pads and a facemask. Crisis Baton time!” Updated
 Fellaini fouls Zuniga, and Mike Oliver points to the spot. Zuniga tricked him beautifully and was clipped. He might have made the most of the tackle but it was a clear foul. Updated
 90+1 min There will be four added minutes. Watford look very comfortable, with a frustrated United giving away free-kicks all over the pitch. 
 90 min “Not much mention of Pogba so I guess he’s had a poor game, again,” says Charles ANtaki. “89 million pounds. Is this part of a deeply considered revenge plan, to ruin the club that once sent him packing?” Apart from one brilliant effort he has been diabolical, worse than Rooney arguably. 
 88 min The last time Watford beat Manchester United was on 16 September 1986, a couple of months before Sir Alex Ferguson became manager. They deserve to win here. 
 What a beautiful goal that was! Amrabat on the right wing stabbed a good angled pass into the box for Pereyra, who made a fine off-the-ball run and then picked out a superb first-time cut-back for Zuniga. He ran onto the ball and struck a first-time curling shot across De Gea and into the far corner. I think it was his second touch in fact, but frankly, who cares? He hadn’t even been on the pitch for a minute! Updated
 79 min Gomes makes a great save from Ibrahimovic! Fellaini, to the left of centre, chipped an angled ball into the box, where Ibrahimovic towered above Britos and powered an immense header back across goal. Gomes showed superb reactions, diving to his right to palm it away. As Robbie Savage says on BT Sport, that was almost a mirror of Deeney’s header in the first half. Updated
 78 min Here’s Phil Podolsky. ““Can’t think of a better parallel to the Rooney situation than Mourinho binning Raul, a once great player who by 2010 was dead weight dragging the team down, as one of his first acts as Real Madrid manager.” Maybe what happened afterwards at Real has made him more politically minded, I don’t know. 
  77 min Britos is booked for pulling back Rashford, who has again been United’s classiest and most determined attacker. Holebas is booked for something or other before the free-kick is taken. 
 73 min Holebas’s dangerous inswinger is flicked on at the near post and booted up in the air by Bailly in the six-yard box. That leads to a bit of a scramble before United eventually clear. 
 72 min Watford haven’t been quite as dangerous on the counter in the second half; nor have they won as many set pieces. But they get one on the right wing after an idiotic foul by Pogba on Pereyra. Updated
 68 min Watford are under pressure for the first time in the match, though Bailly temporarily relieves that pressure with a preposterously ambitious left-footed volley from 30 yards. 
 67 min “I do have to agree with Glenn Hoddle’s point from the first half,” says Matt Loten. “Mourinho always had a brilliantly balanced team in his two stints at Chelsea, which isn’t the case here. Think back to those first title-winning sides: the physicality of Terry alongside the technical and game-reading abilities of Carvalho; the destructive capabilities of Makelele matched with the goals and passing of Lampard and box-to-box energy of Essien; the focal point that was Drogba with the pace and creativity of Cole, Duff or Robben outside him. They had absolutely everything across the pitch, and the physical presence and self-confidence to back it up.” That was a scary team. He did inherit (and also buy) better players but you’re right, the balance was perfect. It’ll probably take him a year or two to get the XI he wants at United. 
 66 min Ibrahimovic, who has been excellent since half-time after an anonymous first half, robs Amrabat and then draws a foul on the left-wing. Rooney’s excellent ball in is headed away well by Cathcart. 
 Marcus Rashford equalises for United. He started a move by playing a smart one-two with Ibrahimovic, who dinked a cross into the box from the left. The stretching Rashford missed his attempted header but it bounced back to him off the unsighted Behrami, and he hammered the ball under Gomes from a few yards. Updated
 61 min Ibrahimovic finds Rooney in space on the right wing. He slices his cross out for a goalkick. Before play resumes, Juan Mata replaces Antonio Valencia. I assume Young will go to right-back. 
 60 min “I wonder,” says Hubert O’Hearn, “what Schweinsteiger is thinking right about now?” Is it possible to think and laugh at the same time? 
 58 min The dawdling Rooney is robbed by Amrabat. He tries to win the ball back with a determined shoulder charge, and falls over. For lovers of comedy, the last five minutes have been gold. Updated
 56 min Bailly overhits a pass to Valencia, who falls over the linesman as he tries to keep in play. He fails. 
 53 min “You say that it looks like United have gone back to a 4-2-3-1,” says Ian Copestake, “but I think they have actually gone back to 1973/74.” Updated
 51 min “I have begun to suspect that football in the Premier League has evolved beyond Mourinho’s comprehension,” says Aniket Chowdhury. “He still believes that physicality can give you an edge over skill. I think he is going to buy Drogba in the January window.” Arf. I think the biggest problem so far is that he isn’t being Mourinho. He seems too conscious of what a Manchester United manager should be seen to do. Updated
 49 min “Please can you avoid mentioning how much you think Rooney has faded for 5 minutes?” says John Boon. “How about some analysis of what’s actually happening instead of the same old mixtape.” You can’t have one without the other, my dear boy. 
 46 min Peep peep! Watford kick off from left to right. Manchester United have 45 minutes to save their season. Updated
 Might as well plug this again: here’s a piece I wrote in the summer about the slow fade of Wayne Rooney’s career. 
 “For Carrick to play,” says Ian Copestake, “he should have been sold three years ago then bought this season for £40m.”  
 Watford deservedly lead against a ponderous Manchester United, who look like a collection of players rather than a team. And many of those players don’t look much cop either. See you in 10 minutes to see whether Manchester United will receive the Premier League Crisis Baton from West Ham! Updated
 45+4 min Rashford picks up a loose ball on the left edge of the box but curls his first-time shot high over the bar. 
 45 min Pogba, who apart from hitting the bar has done the square root of eff all, fouls the excellent Capoue 25 yards from goal. Holebas’s bouncing free-kick is comfortably held by the diving De Gea. Updated
 43 min “That was a clear foul on Martial,” says Benjamin. “The Watford player went straight through the man to get the ball. It was pretty obvious on both the first and second look to me.” But not to two of England’s most experienced referees, one armed with multiple replays. 
 42 min Prodl redeems his own error with a great recovery tackle to block Ibrahimovic’s shot. United still haven’t had a shot on target. I think they might need to switch to 4-4-2 here. 
 41 min Howard Webb, the refereeing expert on BT, says replays are “inconclusive” about the tackle on Martial but that you probably have to give the referee the benefit of the doubt. Updated
 40 min Shaw makes space smartly on the left of the box and then stabs a shot from a tight angle that is deflected wide of the near post. 
 39 min Ashley Young replaces the injured Martial. It looks the problem stems from the clash of heads with Janmaat rather than the Britos challenge. 