 Brighton climbed up to third in the Championship after Anthony Knockaert, Tomer Hemed and Jamie Murphy secured a comfortable 3-0 victory against Brentford. All the their previous 13 victories this season had been by a one-goal margin and this was their first clean sheet at the Amex Stadium for three months. Brighton have three straight wins and Knockaert produced a particularly impressive display, while Brentford have now won only one of their past seven league and cup games. The match got off to a lively start with Brighton going close in the first minute through their French winger Knockaert. The former Leicester man shot wide of the goalkeeper David Button’s right-hand post after Murphy had a low drive blocked. A mistake by the central defender Lewis Dunk presented the Brentford midfielder Alan Judge with a clear sight of goal and he put an angled shot wide with only the goalkeeper David Stockdale to beat. Knockaert threatened again with a tremendous run through the middle which ended with his deflected shot going wide, before the alert Stockdale parried a fine goalbound effort by Judge at the other end. Brentford had a let-off in the 25th minute when Bruno Saltor’s rasping drive was deflected on to the crossbar by Harlee Dean, but Brighton broke the deadlock two minutes later. Knockaert fed Murphy and his cross, after good play down the left, was seized on by the energetic winger, whose low shot from just inside the area brought his first goal for the club. Hemed should have increased the advantage soon after but shot into the side-netting with only Button to beat. However, the Israel striker was on target two minutes before the break, with his downward header from Beram Kayal’s cross his first goal in 11 games. Albion withdrew Bobby Zamora for the Manchester United loanee James Wilson at the interval and they went close shortly after the break, when Hemed put a glancing header wide from a cross by Murphy. The former Sheffield United winger was wasteful himself moments later when he blazed a good chance over. Brentford, with only one win since the turn of the year, were living dangerously again when Knockaert drove over from a cross by Wilson. They came close to reducing the deficit when Stockdale fumbled a corner from Josh McEachran and John Swift’s shot took a deflection at the far post. However, Knockaert came close to scoring his second goal six minutes from time when narrowly failing to make contact with a Murphy cross. Murphy sealed Albion’s most convincing win for 11 months in the second minute of stoppage time, with a left-footed finish into the corner following a pass by the substitute Andrew Crofts. 