 Wayne Rooney became Manchester United’s joint record scorer with Sir Bobby Charlton on 249, 4,484 days after his first goal for the club as the holders began their FA Cup defence with this convincing victory. Reading arrived managed by a United former favourite in Jaap Stam and left having had scant chance of doubling their victory tally over these opponents, the only previous win coming in the competition in January 1927. This was United’s eighth straight win in all competitions and stretched their unbeaten sequence to 14 to leave José Mourinho particularly pleased. He said: “Very professional. I could feel it from the first minute. When we had two big chances to score, the team was intense, dynamic, playing well. For a long time the game was still open at 2-0 but I’m really happy with our attitude.” The day belonged to Rooney. Seven minutes had been played when he made history. The captain was making a first appearance following three games out due to a thigh injury. The 31-year-old had already offered one classy moment when controlling a high ball in Reading’s area. A shot saved by Ali al-Habsi followed and this proved an augury of what was about to occur. The strike that took this finest of footballers equal with Charlton also impressed as it displayed Rooney’s quicksilver brain. Anthony Martial made a run along the left, pulled the ball back to Juan Mata and from a mishit effort Rooney improvised to use a right knee to beat Habsi. Cue a celebration that consisted of a few steps, then a triumphant punch of the air. In the posh seats, members of United’s board stood to applaud and Charlton wore a broad smile. All around the ground the old cry of “Rooney, Rooney” went up to hail a run that began with a Champions League hat-trick against Fenerbahce here on 28 September 2004. The Liverpudlian was running the show for United as in days of yore. In their last outing in this stadium, on New Year’s Eve, Martial had been the outstanding performer. Then, he scored a late equaliser in a 2-1 win over Middlesbrough. Now, 15 minutes were gone when he struck – and he could thank Rooney. The French winger executed a slick one-two with the United captain, ran down the inside-left channel and gave Habsi zero chance with a right-foot finish. This opening half became a tale of Rooney, Martial and Marcus Rashford terrorising Stam’s side, who had no answer to the pace of their opponents. Rooney found Rashford and after the centre-forward’s long run he blazed wide. Later, the No19 rounded Habsi with ease but missed from a tight angle on the right. Next came the pick of the period’s passes as Rooney pinged a first-time ball into Rashford and his attempt deflected for a corner. Mourinho had made nine changes from Monday’s victorious starting XI at West Ham, with only Michael Carrick and Marcos Rojo retained. However, on 19 minutes the manager witnessed precisely what he did not want: the latter going off injured. Mourinho is without another of his centre-backs, Eric Bailly, for up to six weeks because of Africa Cup of Nations duty and his concern was illustrated by the quick word he exchanged with Rojo, presumably to ascertain how serious the problem was, as Phil Jones came on in the Argentinian’s stead. Mourinho said: “It is a muscle. I have lots of question marks always and I don’t like to say. People like to say ‘first degree, X days out, second degree X days out’. Let’s wait to see.” At the start of the second half Rashford created a half-chance for Rooney to break Charlton’s tally. Yet again the 19-year-old burst down the right but his ball in was stabbed at unconvincingly by the No10. Rooney went closer when a quick exchange between Marouane Fellaini and Rashford put him in near goal but Habsi blocked his effort. The tie was about to be settled, though, as between the 75th and 79th minute United’s lead doubled. Both goals came from Rashford, who broke a drought stretching back to 24 September. His fifth of the season derived from a pinpoint 35-yard Carrick pass. Rashford rushed forward, then allowed Habsi no opportunity to save. His second was courtesy of a mix-up between Liam Moore and Habsi. The defender fed the ball back to his goalkeeper, whose attempted clearance became an air-shot and Rashford smashed home. United were comfortably through to the fourth-round draw and 12 years, three months, and 10 days since Rooney first struck in the club’s livery, he walked off to applause, one goal away from the golden 250 for United. 