 Alex Neil remains hopeful of signing Everton’s Steven Naismith this month. Norwich are said to be in pole position to sign the Scotland international after holding advanced talks with Everton. Naismith, who has scored 18 Premier League goals in 103 appearances for Everton, has been a long-term target for Neil, but with the transfer window open for over two weeks the Norwich manager has so far been unable to land his man. “It has been nearly there for the best part of two weeks, so we will wait and see,” said Neil of the 29-year-old Everton forward. “There has been a lot of talk about it but until things are complete and over the line there is not much to say. He is an established Premier League player, who has played in this division for countless years and he has got goals, too. “He is versatile, in terms of he can play off either flank, he can play as a 10 and he can play as a nine. He is experienced, he is determined and he has got good legs and can get about the pitch. He is an international and he is a good lad off the pitch, so there is a whole host of reasons as to why we would be interested in that type of player.” Neil also confirmed after the defeat at Bournemouth his interest in signing the Wolfsburg defender Timm Klose after reports in Germany claimed the two clubs had reached an agreement. But after seeing his Norwich side outclassed here, Neil said the result would not sway his decision-making in the transfer market. “What we are not going to do is respond on the back of one result,” he said. “We have been poor today and we have lost the game, but what I am not going to do is say we need another five or six players as the boys haven’t been doing well enough, because that is not the case. “That team selected today has been relatively consistent from the lineup in the last five or six games, and they have managed to put three or four wins together. “The bottom line is we did not perform well enough and at this level if you don’t perform well enough you are not going to win games. We are still trying to attract players – that was the same before this game, and that remains the same after it.” Charlie Daniels, who scored Bournemouth’s second from the penalty spot either side of goals from Dan Gosling and the striker Benik Afobe, said the home side were delighted by the manner of their win. “It was a good afternoon for us,” said Daniels. “We weren’t happy with the West Ham game [which Bournemouth lost 3-1 at home on Tuesday], not only the result but the way that we played. We wanted to put that right. I felt we dominated with the ball and created a lot of chances in both halves. We probably could have scored a few more goals.” It was Daniels’ cross that enabled Afobe to score on his second appearance for Bournemouth following his club-record acquisition from Wolves. “I saw Benik pointing to where he wanted it,” he said. “So once I had got into the position I just tried to pick him out. It was a great finish and that’s what you want from your No9. “We haven’t had many training sessions since he arrived but from what he has shown, he is learning and fitting in straight away. I have no doubt that he’ll continue to score more goals for us as the season goes on. I can only see him getting better.” 