 Roger Federer may be Mr Cool but he was so overcome with emotion after winning his fifth successive Wimbledon title, thereby equalling Bjorn Borg's modern record, that he managed to put on his signature long white trousers the wrong way round for the presentation ceremony. No doubt royalty and officialdom averted their collective eyes or, like everybody else, simply did not care. Surely no men's champion has been so loved and respected at the All England Club, other than Borg himself. So now Federer will try to chase down Pete Sampras's seven Wimbledon wins, as well as the American's record of 14 grand slam titles overall. "Obviously it's on my mind but Pete was maybe the greatest player we've ever had," he said. "I do feel like I am mentally and physically fit to go on but that is not what makes you win trophies. You have to give yourself opportunities. I would love to equal him because to be on the same ladder as Sampras would be great." He was full of praise for Nadal, whom he beat 7-6, 4-6, 7-6, 2-6, 6-2 in a final of exceptional quality and drama: "He's definitely improved yet again. He had more of a game plan this time. Last year he came out and hit it hard but maybe didn't know why. He has improved so much in the last year." The presence of Borg, who watched from the royal box, brought added emotions for Federer. "It was such a huge occasion and such huge pressure. I will have special memories all my life. We gave each other a Swedish hug. It's always special when greats come around and watch you. Of course I got very emotional last year in Australia when Rod Laver gave me the trophy. I saw Bjorn up in the stands and it made me a bit more proud of myself. And to see him after the match was great as well. "I was almost crying when I was up 5-2 so I had to stay pretty relaxed. All of a sudden he had game point. I tried to stay focused but it's hard. So many things go through your mind. On the second match point I thought I would be aggressive again and it paid off." Nadal said the main difference had been the quality of Federer's serve: "It's important on all surfaces but more so on grass. Obviously I'm disappointed because I had some good chances in the fifth set, but I was playing against one of the best players in the history of tennis on grass so I have to be pleased with my performance. I knew that if I could break Roger's serve in the final set I had a very good chance of the title. My best chance came at 1-1 and 30-40 when I missed my forehand." Nadal took a medical time-out in the fourth set but said his knee had not affected his performance. "Don't worry about my knee, it was fine," he grinned. But the young Spaniard, winner of the past three French Open titles, found defeat tough to take and was close to tears afterwards. "I know that I am playing better than last year but today was tough for me. I tried to play as aggressively as possible, that was my strategy. I was hitting the ball very well in practice in the morning and, although I lost, I think it was a very good final to watch because I was playing against the best player on grass in the world, and playing at a similar level." 