 Reaction to Henman's defeat  I certainly did my best. Unfortunately it wasn't good enough this year. But I know that I'll be back for more tries.  "Sometimes these [weather] breaks can hinder you, sometimes they can help you. It's been the same for both of us and I give Goran credit for the way he played. He was the one that come out on top.   Tim Henman  "Today was a match of nerves, nothing to do with tennis. Who's going to have more nerves and guts is going to win the match.  "If some angel comes tonight in my dreams and says, 'OK, Goran, you going to win Wimbledon tomorrow, but you not able to touch the racket ever again in your life,' I say, 'OK, I rather take that and then never play tennis again.'   Goran Ivanisevic   Tim has to look on the positive side. Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi are not going to go on forever and Tim has three, four or five great years ahead.  Had it been played out on Friday Tim would have won, no doubt. As it was it was the toss of a coin.  I do think Tim can win it in the future. I think he can be a bit more explosive and work on his fitness a little, the way Lleyton Hewitt has.  He can win Wimbledon.   Martina Navratilova, nine times women's singles champion  I really feel for Tim. I hate to say it but the better player for most of the match lost. It is tough about the rain breaks but that is one of the prices of playing on grass.  You can't take it away from Goran. Boy is he happy - a wild card entry in the final. Amazing.  He came out, served a couple of big bombs, went for second-serve aces, missed those, then did get a second-serve ace. It was typical Goran. You can't play against that.  He has that belief that God is on his side and it is his destiny. It is a powerful thing to believe in.  I saw Goran lose at Queen's and I thought he was horrible, he was sad. Now look at him.    Pat Cash, men's champion, 1987  It will take him a few days to get over it but he has got to believe that his day will come. I think he can come back stronger and still win Wimbledon. He did not choke; that is absolute nonsense . Unfortunately our lovely weather hurt our player.    John Lloyd, former British No1  This is devastating. I have seen the look on his face and have been there before. I know what he will have been thinking as he walked off the court.  He gave everything in this tournament. But all credit to Goran, he has come up with the goods. David Felgate, Henman's former coach 