 Tim Henman returns to tournament action this week, his lead in the world rankings over the young man who would replace him as Britain's number one, Andy Murray, having shrunk by more than 150 places since Wimbledon. Henman, 30, was desperately disappointed by his second-round defeat at Wimbledon on 23 June. 'It took a while for me to come to terms with it', he said. He has adopted a feet-up policy since then, while Murray has been having a right old knees-up in North America. The 18-year-old Scot has played in four tournaments, including the second-tier Challenger event in Aptos, California, which he won. Henman's world ranking has slipped to 11. Murray's has soared from 312 before Wimbledon to 156. 'The North American hardcourt season can be a long one and my aim is to try to peak for the US Open, which starts at the end of August,' said Henman, who plays this week in Washington, where he won the title two years ago. 'I find that if I'm over there for too long and play in too many tournaments before heading to New York I can end up being a bit jaded.' Henman, who recently became a father for the second time, dismisses the idea that having a young family has been a factor behind one of the longest unenforced breaks in his career. But he admits that mixing family life and a professional sporting career is hard. 'I try to encourage Lucy and the kids to travel with me as much as possible,' he said.'But that's easier said than done. It's nice, though, when they do manage to get to the tournaments I'm playing in.' Murray, who is now the third-highest Briton in the world rankings behind Henman and Greg Rusedski, is footloose and family-free - and has been making the most of it under the guidance of Mark Petchey, the former British Davis Cup player who became his permanent coach after Wimbledon. He has crossed the United States playing tournaments since Wimbledon and this past week has been competing in a Challenger event in Granby, Canada, where he lost to Gregory Carraz of France, the second seed, in the quarter-finals on Friday night. This was a disappointing setback against a player he beat in straight sets at the start of July and a reminder the 145 places that still separate him from Henman in the rankings are going to be the difficult ones to close. Defending champion Nicolas Massu of Chile was eliminated from the Generali Open, in Kitsbuehel, Austria, after losing 6-3 3-6 5-7 to unseeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco. 'I am very disappointed, because I wanted to repeat my success from last year,' Massu said. 'But Fernando played excellent tennis.' Verdasco, who plays the winner of the all-Argentine semi-final between Gaston Gaudio and Mariano Zabaleta, said: 'It's amazing. I never dreamed of making it to the final.' 