 Although Swiss television badly wanted Roger Federer to play yesterday, it has become customary for the top players to lay down their rackets once a tie has been decided. And so the world No1 watched from the sidelines as the two dead rubbers were concluded, Switzerland having already established a 3-0 winning lead when Federer and Yves Allegro took the doubles against Greg Rusedski and Andrew Murray 7-5, 2-6, 7-6, 6-2. Switzerland will return to the elite 16-nation world group with or without Federer, who has not committed himself to playing in the Davis Cup next year. Great Britain, meanwhile, will continue to grope around in the Euro-African group, hoping they get a decent home draw on Thursday which, if they win it, will give them another crack at qualifying for the elite group this time next year. It is worth repeating that even when Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski were at their peak Britain failed to win a single tie in the world group. Which rather points to the fact that the British are not really very good at this type of team tennis, a discipline which stretches nerves to breaking point and asks a good deal more of players than is demanded on the day-to-day professional circuit. The cupboard is increasingly bare. Henman's decision taken at the start of the year not to play Davis Cup any more was perfectly understandable, given the problems with his back. Although Rusedski, 32, remains as willing as ever to fight for the cause, his serve is no longer the weapon it was. Jeremy Bates, Britain's captain, clearly felt he could not risk playing his No1 over the full three days. In hindsight, leaving him out of the opening singles was a mistake, for he stood a better chance of beating Stanislas Wawrinka, the Swiss No2, than did Murray, who was making his singles debut and lost in straight sets. But Bates had little in the way of tactical choice. Neither of his back-up players, David Sherwood and Alan Mackin, who both lost their singles yesterday as Switzerland completed a whitewash, is good enough at this level. It is not a situation likely to be resolved in the near future. "We badly need somebody to step into Greg's shoes during the next couple of years," said Bates. "You have to hope one or two of the youngsters are inspired by Andy, and certainly they can relate to him because he is their age." The obvious danger is that the 18-year-old Murray will be left to carry the burden on his own, and that may lead to immense frustrations all round. Murray has received yet another wild card, into the Bangkok tournament this week, where two wins would take him into the top 100, giving him automatic entry into the Australian Open main draw in January. "Nothing seems to faze him and his level is already way above his current ranking," said Bates. The last time Britain lost 5-0 was against Slovakia in 1995 when Henman made his cup singles debut. British tennis was fortunate he emerged when he did, and they may be equally fortunate with Murray. Unfortunately strength in depth remains as nonexistent as it was a decade ago. Henman and Murray are exceptions. 