 As the rain cascaded on these lawns yesterday Wayne Arthurs and Jonas Bjorkman, the two oldest players in the men's draw, sat in the locker room and grew older still. It needed just one more rain break, it seemed, and they would be too old to play at all - or perhaps they would be quietly withdrawn from the main draw and dropped into the seniors' event. In Gulliver's Travels members of the Struldbrug tribe are judged to be legally dead at 80 and perhaps tennis players should be classified as legally retired when they get to 35, even if they do still want to go out there and make damned fools of themselves. Arthurs, whose fierce left-handed serve even great players wanted to avoid in the early rounds just few years ago, is 36. Bjorkman, who has also over-dosed on anno domini, is 35. That's geriatric by modern tennis standards and yesterday they came face to face as if the organisers had hoped that they might hold each other upright for at least three sets. Arthurs, in particular, did not rage, rage against the dying of the light. The Australian calls himself half-English. In fact his father played Davis Cup tennis for Ireland. He is not your typical ocker Aussie. Quiet and self-effacing, there is something of Martin McCague about him - the big Australian with an Irish background who England chose to bowl fast for them a few years ago (or "the rat who joined a sinking ship" as the Aussies called him). Yesterday he looked very English indeed as he lost the first set 6-2 in 26 minutes and the second 6-1 in 28 minutes. He certainly looked a little older than the little boy his mother used to tie to the net post so he would not run away while she practised. They were 1-1 in the third when more rain halted the match and they traipsed off in search of an oxygen tent. There was little sign of the needle that has existed in some of their previous encounters - perhaps they did not have enough energy for it. "We've had a few run-ins in the past," said Arthurs. "He hit me pretty hard in the nether regions in the Davis Cup a few years ago." Neither was Arthurs amused when the Swedish Bjorkman made some pointed comments in his own language. Arthurs could not understand them but his Swedish girlfriend could. To add further spice to the match, Arthurs' former Davis Cup doubles partner, Todd Woodbridge, is Bjorkman's coach. To be fair to Arthurs this was his seventh match at Wimbledon - the number of ties needed to win the thing. But, ranked 195 in the world - the lowest among survivors at SW19 - he had to come through four qualifying rounds to get to the first round proper. Before this he had played five qualifying events, without success, at Adelaide, Las Vegas, Indian Wells, Roland Garros and Queen's. So just getting through to last week's first round was an achievement of sorts. "I've had my best results here and this is where I always wanted to finish my career. Unless I made the semis of the Aussie Open - in which case I would have gone on for another year." In the first round he beat Thiemo De Bakker, 18 and the third youngest player in the draw. When he then beat Tommy Robredo a group of Australian friends presented him with a wheelchair with his name on it. The success of Lleyton Hewitt in recent years has disguised the decline in Australian tennis; Hewitt and Arthurs were the last two Australian survivors. The remarkable Bjorkman, ranked 35, who used occasionally to buy dinner for his supporters, reached the semis here last year, when he was beaten by the champion Roger Federer. He was far too good for Arthurs in the first two sets as Wayne's world took a tilt for the worse. When they returned for the final, twilit set, there was little change to the pattern of the match "Go Wayne," cried a faint voice but that could be taken one of two ways. The remains of Wayne Arthurs looked a little older than Methuselah's grandad as Bjorkman took the final set 6-4. At Wimbledon Court No2 is known as the graveyard of champions and yesterday No3 was the graveyard for the career of the gallant Arthurs. "Growing old is like being increasingly penalised for a crime you haven't committed," said Anthony Powell. Yesterday Arthurs was heavily penalised. Wayne Arthurs Age 36, Born Adelaide, Australia Height 6ft 3in, Weight 177lb Turned pro 1990, Current ATP ranking 195 Career-high ranking 44 (July 9, 2001) Career titles 1 Wimbledon best 4th rd (1999, 2002) Jonas Bjorkman Age 35, Born Alvesta, Sweden Height 6ft, Weight 183lb Turned pro 1991, Current ATP ranking 35 Career-high ranking 4 (Nov 3, 1997) Career titles 6 Wimbledon best Semi-final (2006) 