 The Pakistan Test captain, Misbah-ul-Haq, has called on the cricketing fraternity to respect the decision to recall the pace bowler Mohammad Amir to the international fold. On Friday Amir received his first Pakistan call-up since completing a five-year ban for spot-fixing, being named in the one-day and Twenty20 squads to tour New Zealand. The 23-year-old had served time in prison in the UK for the deliberate bowling of no-balls during the 2010 series against England and he must wait to be granted a visa to enter New Zealand if he is to resume playing for his country. Nevertheless, his selection is a new chapter in his cricketing career, despite some consternation among Pakistan players both past and present. Misbah, who took over the captaincy in the aftermath of the spot-fixing scandal, wrote in a piece on cricket.com.au: “Some players had reservations against his comeback and I think the cricket board has done the right thing by engaging players and Amir in conversation. “It will be good for everybody. We need to remember that the regulatory bodies have allowed him to come back. We players shouldn’t even comment on it and need to respect the decision of the ICC and the Pakistan Cricket Board.” The series against New Zealand begins on 15 January with the first of three T20 internationals before three ODIs. Amir’s selection came on the back of good performances in Pakistan’s domestic game and a bowler once hailed glowingly by the former West Indies fast bowler Michael Holding will be hoping to hit back at his critics. “I recently watched Mohammad Amir in the Bangladesh Premier League,” Misbah added. “I think he is the same bowler he was five years ago. He is quite fit and the pace and swing he has is the same when he left. “I couldn’t see a difference between the Amir then and the Amir now. But right now the question is not about his performance. There is no doubt he has done well in domestic cricket as well as the BPL.” Azhar Ali was confirmed as captain of the ODI squad only days after his resignation was rejected by the PCB. Azhar was said to be unhappy with the presence of Amir in the national team training group. The head of the selection committee, Haroon Rashid, said: “The team is a fine blend of experience and youth and the selectors believe that it would acquit itself well on the tour.” Amir was released from a young offenders’ institution in Weymouth in February 2012 after serving half of a six-month jail sentence for spot-fixing. He had pleaded guilty at Southwark crown court in 2011 to intentionally bowling two no-balls in the Lord’s Test the year before. 