 Tim Henman raised hopes of halting his alarming slide with a patient performance in the Dubai Open yesterday to beat Spain's Feliciano López, a former finalist, 6-2, 7-6. It is not a quality always associated with Henman but his mind was concentrated, perhaps by his lowest ranking for a decade, on the risk of no longer gaining direct entry to all main tour events and the need for a belated wild card into the Gulf tournament. He has slipped to 49th in the world rankings and is now classed as the British No3 behind Andy Murray and Greg Rusedski. Confronted with a hard-hitting left-hander with a tendency for self-destruction, Henman decided that containment from the back of the court was his best option, using blocks on service returns and slices in the rallies. "The best aspect was how calm I was in certain situations," he said in reference to López saving one match point with a pair of bullish volleys at 5-6 and three more in the tie-break with infuriatingly brilliant resistance. Henman eventually finished him by forcing another ground-stroke error, but it might have become much more awkward had the umpire not made a timely overrule 20 minutes earlier. A line judge called out to a Henman drive which landed on the baseline with the Briton 2-4 and 15-40 down, which would have given López a double break. Instead Henman used the reprieve to rescue that service game, break back three games later and return the pressure to his opponent. "It's not a question of form with me but of confidence in moving well," said the former British No1, alluding to his back problems. "That has not always been the case, particularly when I have not been healthy. I've had so many problems with my bad back that when I get out there and actually feel healthy I really feel I want to take advantage of it. It's a good start. I only got here on Sunday morning so didn't have any time to prepare, but I am happy with my overall game." His movement was good enough to offer hope against Radek Stepanek, last week's winner of Rotterdam, whom he will play next should the Czech beat John van Lottum today. Rusedski lost 7-6, 6-0 to Andre Agassi after almost breaking for 5-3 in the first set. He seemed content to return home to his wife and their month-old daughter Scarlett and to concede what he called the "baton" to Murray. "He's got 15 years in which to carry it now." 