 Serena Williams beats Daniela Hantuchova 6-2, 6-7, 6-2 Serena, looking to win the match with a knockout blow on every point, hits a backhand so foul that it ends in row Z level with the net. But the tactic works often enough for her to set up a match-point ... and Hantuchova slams the ball into the top of the net to hand Serena the most improbable and dramatic of victories. Totally extraordinary. Many thanks for your emai ... ah, who am I trying to kid? Mike. Third set: Hantuchova 2-5 Serena* It's now Hantuchova who is looking weary, wilting against the withering onslaught from her opponent. And as I write that, the Slovak wins three successive points to take the game to deuce - this match is so difficult to predict! I'm glad I'm not sitting behind Serena's dad at this match because he's spending the majority of the time on his feet. At the moment he's celebrating his daughter going 5-2 up. Serena, who requested a loo-stop at the last changeover to relieve herself of the vast quantities of water she has taken on board in the past few hours, is not being allowed because she has to go before her own service game. I'm sure the fact she is moving more freely now and that she says she doesn't need to visit the toilet is purely a coincidence. Third set: *Hantuchova 2-4 Serena Hantuchova plays a quite remarkable shot to take a 30-0 lead. Serena fizzed a return back straight at her shins, Hantuchova whipped her racket in front of her legs as if she was playing French cricket, and the ball cannoned off the strings, over the net and onto the inside tramline. But Serena comes charging back with a volley of sweeping forehands and backhands to take the first break of the set. Third set: Hantuchova 2-3 Serena* Every point is now being ended with a "come on" from one of the two players - Hantuchova's gentle, Serena's deafening those in the front rows. It's Serena who cries out loud most often in this game.  Third set: *Hantuchova 2-2 Serena Serena ups her tempo for the first time but her chase after Hantuchova's drop-shot is in vain. Her outfit and lack of mobility resemble that of a middle-aged mother struggling to keep up with her daughter during a leisurely Sunday afternoon game in the park.  Third set: Hantuchova 1-2 Serena* Hantuchova is trying to make Serena play as many shots as possible, forcing the American into errors as she tries harder and harder to end the rally. After a line-judge's call is overturned by Hawk-Eye, Serena slams her racket into the grassy ground with all the ferocity of one of her serves - it smashes and she receives a warning from the umpire, but she still proceeds to win the game. "Why does the crowd have to sit silently when the ball is in play?" asks Gary Naylor. "Tennis isn't a precision sport like snooker or darts - the players should thrive on the noise and atmosphere." There's plenty of noise on Centre Court, Gary, not least when Hawk-Eye intervened and ruled against Serena by a margin of three millimetres. The crowd were 100% in favour of Hantuchova before Serena broke down with cramp; now it's much more even. Third set: *Hantuchova 1-1 Serena Serena is not going to involve herself in any lengthy rallies; she's going for aces with every serve and standing a yard or so inside the baseline when attempting winners on the return. If she doesn't think she can reach a Hantuchova serve, she doesn't attempt to - the Slovak can never have served so many aces. At the moment not only is she not running during points, she's not even walking during points. It's an intriguing contrast of styles, and Hantuchova scrapes together a hold. Third set: Hantuchova 0-1 Serena* Bending her knees and throwing her body into a shot for the first time, Serena fires down the fastest serve of the match and follows that with another ace to take the game to 30-all. Two more unreturnable serves registers a one in the games tally for Serena. Hantuchova wins the second-set tie-break 7-2 Serena is yet to play a ground-stroke anywhere other than, well, straight into the ground. Hantuchova wraps up the set with an ace out wide which Serena doesn't even move for. Second-set tie-break: *Serena 2-5 Hantuchova Serena's mobility is still hampered - she is unable to push off on her serve as she usually does. Hantuchova wins the first point of the resumed play. Incidentally, they are not leg-ins but "cropped sweat-pants", according to Tracy Austin. 7.25pm There has been plenty of discussion about the salt supplements that Serena took moments before collapsing with cramp. Tracy Austin says it was something that they used to take in her day, but even before the end of her career she was advised it was more likely to cause deyhdration than offset the effects of cramp. 7.15pm With no word of warning from the Beeb whatsoever, the players have returned to the court and are currently warming-up - a fairly important process one would suggest given earlier events. Serena's wearing white leg-ins under her floaty skirt and both her calfs are bandaged up. She looks looser than she was in the second set but obviously conscious of the problem. While this match is, of course, important, Serena mustn't risk causing extensive damage to her lower leg. 6.15pm False alarm - it's started spitting again and the covers are being drawn over the courts once more. Incidentally, the official diagnosis on Serena's injury is that she is suffering from a "spasm-induced calf strain", which is the doctors effectively saying they don't know whether it's cramp or a muscle-tear. 6pm The covers are coming off so Serena will have to reappear on Centre Court shortly. 5.40pm That was a tremendously brave performance from Serena - she deserves a second chance in this match. Cramp is not an affliction that can be quickly shaken off, but she should remember during this rain-break that she is only five points from victory. And, of course, it could be that play is postponed until tomorrow, giving her 17 hours to recover. For me, the bookies' decision to make Hantuchova odds-on favourite is flawed. Second set tie-break: *Serena 2-4 Hantuchova Richard Williams, Serena's father, points to the heavens as the players change ends, drawing the attention of the umpire to the fact steady drizzle is falling from the crowds. And that is that, play is stopped! Second set tie-break: *Serena 0-3 Hantuchova Two more Serena errors, forced not by the play of Hantuchova but by the restriction imposed by cramp, extend the Slovak's lead. Second set tie-break: Serena 0-1 Hantuchova* Serena is playing literally at walking pace, and despite setting the point up for an easy kill, is unable to position herself for the put-away. Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 6-6 Despite being unable to fully stretch her body when serving and having almost no mobility around the court, Serena remarkably takes a 40-15 lead. And then, incredibly, she fires down an ace and roars out the shriek of a wonded animal. What a competitor! Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 5-6 Serena has collapsed with cramp. She was walking to the other side of the court when it suddenly bit. After unsuccessfully trying to cure thr problem with a few slaps of her racket, she fell to the floor with an almighty yelp. The trainer is now massaging the muscle but Serena is clearly in agony. Will the rain come quickly enough to save her from retirement?  Having donned her tracksuit top - which is more of a fashionable white cardigan - and wrapped a towel around her bare legs, Hantuchova wanders over to her stricken opponent to check on her health. Much to the amusement of the crowd, the umpire announces that Serena has taken a medical time-out, the importance of which is that there are three minutes before play must resume - or Serena retire. Serena is up on her feet but she can't take a single step without hobbling. "Time" is called and Hantuchova resumes at 30-15. Serena doesn't even move to try and return the first serve, and then concedes the game with an effortless Tom Lutz-esque slice into the net. Given that rain is supposedly imminent, she might as well do the bare minimum - serve half-heartedly, don't bother to play out points - until the weather forces them off court and she can resume, hopefully unimpeded, in a couple of hours. Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 5-5 A huge, heaving cloud is slowly making its way to Wimbledon. Whether it will arrive before the climax to this set remains to be seen. Serena has now won 12 of the last 13 points and Hantuchova is beginning to wilt again against the incessant dynamism of Serena's groundstrokes. Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 4-5 Serena breaks back and receives a thumbs-up from her dad for her troubles. She called for the trainer at the last end-change and we are now being told that she wanted some salt - indicating she is feeling the effects of cramp. She has been on court for less than an hour so that makes Serena's dietary needs difficult to digest. Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 3-5 Another service game held to love. Two things to note: 1) My computer refused to save this entry first time round - kindly deleting it instead; and 2) Hantuchova elected not to bother contesting a line judge's call despite it clearly being wrong - the men have requested the judicial services of Hawk-Eye on 60 occasions this week, the women only 16. Draw your own conclusions. Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 2-5 Hantuchova is as gutsy as the conditions are gusty. After rebounding a torrent of forcible Serena groundstrokes, Hantuchova provided a symbolic contrast with a delicate drop-shot which Serena's short steps were unable to reach. Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 2-4 Serena follows the grunt that accompanies her thumping forehand winner with a booming "COME ON!", bellowed in a way that Henmaniacs can only dream of. Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 1-4 How the roles have reversed. Hantuchova holds her serve to love, even rounding it off emphaticaly with a down-the-middle ace. Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 1-3 With the score at 15-40, Serena suffers a nosebleed as she inadvisedly approaches the net and Hantuchova does the necessary with a cute backhand cross-court pass to set up two break-points ... and then takes the first opportunity with a forehand that makes Serena look leaden-footed all of a sudden. Game on! Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 1-2 Hantuchova exhibits the skills that have made her a top 10 player with two gorgeous down-the-line backhands to ensure Serena couldn't take advantage of a 30-30 scoreline. "Am I alone in really, really liking Serena and Venus?" asks Gary Naylor. No, Gary, you're just alone in reading this game-by-game report. "Had they not been around, women's tennis would have spent the post-Martina and Steffi era as Red Top fodder with the occasional interesting moment from the technically excellent, but very, very dull Ms Henin and the now tedious Sharapova circus." Second set: *Serena leads Hantuchova 6-2, 1-1 Serena - wearing a floaty white dress, the back of which looks like a bra to this untrained eye - briskly runs through another service game with minimum fuss. It has taken Henin, likely Serena's next opponent, just three hours and 47 minutes to win her first four matches in this year's tournament - that's less time than it took Tim Henman to record his only victory - so Serena is eager to get off court and put her feet up. Second set: Serena leads Hantuchova* 6-2, 0-1 It seems there is a powerful wind affecting the strokes of the players, with Hantuchova's shots being held up while Serena's are pushed on. But then, when the pair change ends, it is as if the wind has suddenly down a 180 to again lend Serena a lending hand. And yet the biggest round of applause of this brief spell of play is reserved for Hantuchova as her accuracy of shot and determination ensures she saves a break point and then sends Serena scurrying around the court before winning the game with a deadly forehand put-away. First set: Hantuchova 2-6 Serena* Serena fires down her fifth ace on way to cruising to the first set in only 27 minutes. Serena's ability to turn up just at the big events and still compete is outstanding - I can't think of other sportsman or woman (with the possible exceptions of boxers) who is inactive for such lengthy periods before appearing on the world scene and competing, and beating, the very best. She has only played in 53 tournaments in the last five years, but has won 28 of them. First set: *Hantuchova 2-5 Serena Serena, perhaps attacking Hantuchova's serve too vociferously, lands three returns in the net, prompting Hantuchova to skip to her chair. She'll likely be back there in two or three minutes time when Serena wraps up this set. First set: Hantuchova 1-5 Serena* Serena's desperate to finish this match in the shortest time possible. She holds her serve to love in this game and is almost instantly in position to start receiving Hantuchova's powder-puff delivery. First set: *Hantuchova 1-4 Serena The patronising BBC male commentator - likely some no-mark Brit who once took the 15th seed to a fifth set on Court One before losing "heroically" - says "it is vital Hantuchova stays with Serena in this match - otherwise she'll find it very tricky to win". Hantuchova is trying to prove that theory wrong by double-faulting her way to the concession of a second break and a 4-1 deficit. First set: Hantuchova 1-3 Serena* The lithe Slovak displays an ounce or two more courage than I had given her credit for, earning a break point ... but sadly not taking it. It is difficult to see how Hantuchova's frail frame can come with Serena's sheer strength. First set: *Hantuchova 1-2 Serena Somewhat belatedly - both in terms of the start of this match and the start of this commentary in relation to the match, we're under way. Ah, and now the match, to all extents and purposes, is over, Serena breaking to love. Hantuchova rounded off the game with a double fault - classic. 4pm Ok, Mike here. We're set for some play very soon. All I need to do now is find a computer located near a TV (and hope that said TV is showing this match I'm supposed to be updating you on), and we're set. The inside line We've just had word from Mr Ingle - currently at Wimbledon - that there won't be any play for at least a couple of hours, so I'm going to step down from raindrop-by-raindrop duties. Do keep checking back though - Mike Adamson will be taking up the reins shortly and dropping in with updates on when we might get some play. Thanks for all your emails. Rats It started drizzling again, so they've trotted back off court without playing even a single point. Stats! Facts! Fun? Williams has won five of the six matches these two have played - Hantuchova's only win coming at the Australian Open at the beginning of 2006, right at the beginning of Williams's spectacular world ranking crash. Other than that match - which Hantuchova took 6-1, 7-6 - Williams has only dropped one set to Hantuchova - in Los Angeles last year on the way to a 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 win. The running tally of games won in all six matches reads Williams 68-44 Hantuchova. And the number of readers bothering to read to the end of this paragraph is... oh... just me then. They're back on court And getting warmed up again, so hopefully we'll be under way shortly. Meantime here's Gary Naylor: "Can this dismal sporting summer be rescued by Serena and Venus? Is their mix of athleticism, talent, spectacular play, leavened with this strange vulnerability, matched anywhere in sport? Losing motivation, dropping out, then returning to the pinnacle of a sport is a trick pulled off by very few indeed - Evonne Cawley in tennis, Niki Lauda and Mike Hailwood in motorsport, but examples are few and far between. Venus did it here in 2005 and Serena did it at Melbourne in 2007. I really hope one of them does it again on Saturday." I doubt it would be Venus again this tournament Gary - she hasn't played especially well so far, but Serena has every chance. She will, of course, need to get through Henin to do it though. Latest from the GU pomposity and pontification throne Perusing Daniela Hantuchova's official website, I couldn't help but think it gave off the impression of a woman slightly confused in her focus - in some sections you could be forgiven for thinking this was a model's website, rather than a professional athlete. Obviously she's not the first tennis player to do a spot of modelling - and I wouldn't blame anyone for taking the extra money if it's offered - but I do wonder whether those that really commit to that world do so compromise their sporting careers somewhat. If nothing else it must take away that harsh edge of knowing your future income is based on continuing to succeed on the court. Although there are plenty of other factors involved, it is noteworthy that Hantuchova went from a player who played in quarter-finals at three consecutive Grand Slams at 19 (Wimbledon 2002, US Open 2002, Australian Open 2003), has played in just one since (French Open). An email "Please don't mention that clown Westwood ever again," implores Archi Campbell. "If you're going to talk about music I'd much prefer links to the rather lovely Kate Nash." He may have a point - my colleague James Dart has pointed out that talk of "dropping the bomb (baby)" is probably inappropriate in the current political climate. Perhaps I should actually spend a bit of time previewing this game then. Fans of our glorious Wimbledon podcast will know that I, like many other pundits to be fair, reckon Serena v Justine Henin (who beat Patty Schnyder 6-2, 6-2 in her fourth round match) in the quarter-finals will effectively serve as the final of this year's tournament. Hantuchova should be a game opponent for Miss Williams today, but probably nothing more - the leggy Slovak is hard-working and remarkably consistent, but little more than that. Like everyone else on the women's tour, she lacks the power of her opponent, but unlike Henin and maybe one or two others of the top female seeds, she also lacks the technical superiority to make up for that fact. 14:07 update Sue Barker is promising us tennis "very soon", but judging by the ballboys bailing water off the centre-court covers with large buckets I doubt it. Shock revelation! Jelena Jankovic likes shopping! She does not, on the other hand, like Jamie Murray. Or at least not in that way. Still, could be quite a tasty doubles pairing I reckon. And if they ever did get together they'd probably have some pretty handy tennis-playing offspring. Looks like we've got a bit of time to kill here, so lets fritter it some of it away speculating about which two athletes would produce the ultimate sporting offspring. I reckon Shaq and Paula Radcliffe - size and endurance. So the score right now is: Hantuchova* 1-1 Williams. And, typically, approximately 6.2s before the coverage did switch over, the heavens opened again, so it looks like we'll be waiting a little longer. Preamble. Sort of: Hello. In this interactive age of red buttons, self-recording televisions and Tim Westwood soundboards, you might have thought that we could somehow work out a way to get a live feed of Serena Williams's match against Daniela Hantuchova from the start. Sadly, you would be wrong, so we've had to wait for the BBC to spread its coverage across two channels to start our own commentary the match. 