 There is something beguilingly, misleadingly innocent about Laura Robson. Nothing seems to faze her: neither fame (she was amazed to learn she is among the most popular of all tennis players on Twitter), nor injury, having only thrown away her crutches a month ago, nor the prospect of playing the 13th seed, Jelena Jankovic, in the first round of the Australian Open on Monday. A characteristically uneven and tense win, 6-1, 7-6, in the final qualification round against the Ukrainian Olga Savchuk earned her a precious spot in the main draw against the former world No1, whose unpredictability is on a par with Robson's. Would she not have preferred an easier opponent, to rack up some ranking points and break into the top 100? "I'm happy to play anyone really," she said. "Playing anyone in the main draw is going to be tough because all the girls are very experienced players." She could hardly be in better spirits ahead of her 18th birthday next Saturday. Any thoughts on a celebration? "It depends if I'm still going to be here, but my main plan is not to be on a plane because that would be the biggest buzz-kill for an 18th birthday. "I got the cutest early birthday present. This young guy gave me a cookbook, which I love, and a necklace with an 'L' on it. It was very cute. His name was Peter. He's from Australia. I'm going to find out his full name so I can send him a thank you note." She might send one to her team of physios and doctors, too, having recovered with remarkable speed from a stress fracture to her left shin. Robson has three British colleagues for company in the main draw – the most away from home in a slam since 1992 – all of whom play . Heather Watson has an even more formidable first-up opponent in the third seed, Victoria Azarenka; Elena Baltacha plays France's Stéphanie Foretz Gacon; and Anne Keothavong has drawn Mona Barthel of Germany. Flag-waving aside, more eyes will be on Serena Williams, whose turned ankle in Brisbane has apparently healed and who sounded upbeat about her opening match, against the Austrian Tamira Paszek. "I feel like I have nothing to lose," she said. "I really tested my movement on Saturday. I feel a lot better with it. I've been taking it easy for a long time, but I feel good. I'm extremely claustrophobic, so the chamber is not an option for me. It's going to be icing, which I don't like. Enough matches? Definitely. I was training every day after the US Open." Again, the women's game comes under scrutiny as either in disarray – there were four different grand slam winners last year (and there are nine slam winners in this draw) – or healthily diverse. "Is there a dip?" Williams said. "No, I don't really think so. There are a lot of hungry young players and players who have been on the tour a long, long time." In that mix, Petra Kvitova leads the new breed, but her form is fitful. While the young Wimbledon champion fell apart against the former finalist Li Na in Sydney last week, she ought to have less trouble against the 84th-ranked Russian Vera Dushevina. Kvitova was in sight of displacing Caroline Wozniacki as world No1 until Li's stirring third-set comeback. The Dane, meanwhile, looks to regroup against Australia's Anastasia Rodionova. The local with the biggest burden of expectation is the US Open champion Sam Stosur, seeded sixth here and betraying worrying anxiety in front of her home crowd recently. A win over the Romanian Sorana Cirstea in the first round would go some way to settling her nerves. . 