 Sajid Mahmood looks certain to be the chief beneficiary of England's mounting fast-bowling crisis. With James Anderson and Steve Harmison already ruled out through injury, and Simon Jones likely to join them, Mahmood, the fiery Lancashire quick, is the favourite to make a Test debut against Sri Lanka at Lord's next week. England withdrew Mahmood from the England A side to face Sri Lanka at Worcester tomorrow so that the tourists could not get much of a look at him. It is a common response, although on this occasion it had dubious worth and only served to illustrate England's uncertainty. Mahmood is fast, unpredictable and not overly subtle, so there is not an awful lot to hide. On a seamer-friendly pitch such as Worcester, England's purpose might have been better served by playing him and trying to win a psychological advantage against a Sri Lanka side perceived to be vulnerable in an English spring. Equally, if Mahmood's accuracy is not yet up to the rigours of a five-day Test, it would have been best to have been forewarned. Instead, he plays for Lancashire against Kent in the county championship at Old Trafford. An opportunity at Lord's for Mahmood, nevertheless, would be refreshing. A cousin of the Olympic boxing sensation, Amir Khan, he was drawn by Lancashire from the Bolton League when he was employed as a supermarket shelf-stacker. David Graveney, the chairman of England's selectors, saw Mahmood's pace disturb the Sri Lankan A side on their own flat pitches little more than a year ago. "In the absence of Anderson and Harmison he will be up there in terms of being a quicker bowler," he said. "Let's see what conditions we encounter at Lord's, but you can read into his withdrawal from the A game that he will be in the frame for the Test match." If England acted with certainty over Mahmood, they were in more confusion over Anderson whose back problems were serious enough to concern his team-mates in the latter stages of England's tour of India, but were not regarded as worthy of a scan. For a player beginning to regain the verve with which he burst on to the international scene, it is a cruel blow. Anderson is upbeat that he will be fit for the Pakistan series, but the fact is that England did not thoroughly check out his injury immediately upon his return from the India tour, quite an oversight considering that so much emphasis has been placed upon how his action could bring about back trouble. "I understand it might take about six weeks to heal, but as I've already had a fortnight it means I might only have another month of the rehabilitation process," Anderson said. "Obviously I'll need more time after that before I'm fit to bowl competitively again, but there are top people looking after me here at Old Trafford and I'm hoping to be back sooner than everyone first thought." Jones, whose career is increasingly littered with injury, failed to complete Glamorgan's C&G tie against Ireland in Cardiff on Monday having bowled a hostile new-ball spell. His immediate withdrawal from today's championship match against Derbyshire logically rules him out of the Test. The left knee which forced him to leave India prematurely for an operation was still feeling "sore" yesterday. A scan - delayed until today - is expected to confirm England's worst fears. That he will play at Lord's is surely inconceivable. That he plays at all in the Sri Lankan Test series is open to question. Graveney made that abundantly clear yesterday, stating: "The parameters are that players will have to play a four-day game before the Test match. If they don't play, they won't be considered for the Test and at the present stage, Harmison, Vaughan, Anderson and Jones would not be considered." 