 The Spanish teenager Rafael Nadal will always retain the fondest of memories for the Monte Carlo Open and he added to them yesterday with a withering 6-0, 6-3 victory over Belgium's Xavier Malisse. The young left-hander is immensely quick and powerful and he overpowered Malisse in scarcely an hour. Poor Malisse, once an outstanding junior himself and a former top-20 player, was the epitome of dejection in the first set. The sun was out, the sky was blue but in his head and heart all was a grey monotone.  It was here two years ago, as a 16-year-old, that Nadal beat the then reigning French Open champion Albert Costa in the second round and alerted the wider tennis world to his prodigious talent.  "I will never forget that day. By beating Karol Kucera and then Costa I knew I could compete against the best players and it gave me a lot of confidence," he said.  Here in 2003 his fellow Mallorcan Carlos Moyá, himself a former champion of Roland Garros, declared that within two years Nadal, nephew of the former Barcelona defender Miguel Angel Nadal, would be in the world's top 10. And he might well have been but for a stress fracture to his left ankle which put him out of most of last year's clay-court season.  Nadal arrived in the principality this week as No17 in the world and fast maturing into one of the world's leading players. At Key Biscayne this month he pushed Roger Federer, the world No1, to five sets in the final of the Nasdaq-100, during which the Spaniard led by two sets and 4-1 and was two points away from victory in the third-set tie-break.  By beating Costa two years ago he became the first 16-year-old to break into the world's top 100 since the American Michael Chang in 1988. Chang went on to win his one and only grand slam title in Paris the next year and Nadal may well become the King of Clay this June.  Nadal has already won two clay-court tournaments this year in Mexico and Brazil and his confidence is increasing with every victory. Even his English is improving by leaps and bounds, something that clearly gives him a great deal of satisfaction, particularly as his boyhood dream was always to win Wimbledon.  The man with that title in his pocket, Federer, has French Open ambitions of his own, as befits a man who has lost only one of his last 51 matches. "Wimbledon will always stay my No1 dream tournament but it doesn't mean the French is not important," he said after beating Spain's Albert Montañés 6-3, 6-4.  The Swiss reached the last eight at Roland Garros as a 19-year-old in 2001 but has won only two matches there since. This has little to do with his ability on the surface, rather that his priorities have been elsewhere. His playing here for the first time in three years underlines the seriousness of this year's preparations. 