 The celebrations should have been long and hard, instead they were muted and distracted. It was an inevitable consequence because newly crowned US Open champion Lleyton Hewitt's journey home to Australia, from the city where he'd enjoyed his biggest victory, coincided with the attacks on the World Trade Centre. Barely 36 hours after thrashing Pete Sampras to signal the biggest sea change the sport has seen in a decade, the events of 11 September ensured that tennis didn't matter a jot. But part of the joy of sport is that one day it can be rendered an utter triviality while another it plays the most cathartic and symbolic of roles.  When the US Open starts at Flushing Meadows tomorrow it will represent the biggest international sporting event staged in the city since the attacks, which will be remembered as the battered American flag recovered from Ground Zero is hoisted during what is sure to be an emotionally charged opening ceremony.  But thereafter the tennis will be allowed to take centre stage and Hewitt will relish his title defence after beating four-time champion Sampras 7-6 6-1 6-1 in last year's final, a result from which the winner of a record number of grand-slam titles shows little sign of ever recovering. The 21-year-old Australian meanwhile has gone from strength to strength, adding the Wimbledon crown and taking a grip on the world number-one spot.  Hewitt arrives here the undoubted favourite. His dispute with the rulers of the men's game, the Association of Tennis Professionals - he was outraged when fined for refusing to do a pre-match television interview - will be no distraction. En route to last year's victory, the top seed coped with a row that was potentially far more damaging when accused of racially abusing a line judge in his second-round match against James Blake. Since then Hewitt has put daylight between himself and the player he succeeded as US Open champion, world number two Marat Safin, and it would seem only two players might be able to prevent a successful title defence. One is former French Open champion Carlos Moya, who boasts three wins over Hewitt this year and is a potential semi-final opponent, the other is Greg Rusedski.  The British number two's big, leftie serve draws Hewitt out of his comfort zone at the baseline and Rusedski would fancy his chances, having beaten the Australian less than two weeks ago in Indianapolis. Hewitt will be delighted that the withdrawals of Thomas Johansson and Guillermo Canas mean Rusedski has been removed to the opposite half of the draw, having been a potential second opponent.  Rusedski has enjoyed some fine results this summer having also beaten Safin and world number three Tommy Haas. But ghosts from the past haunt the Canadian-born Briton, both physically and mentally. It's almost a tennis-player's lifetime since he reached the final here in 1997 and subsequently he has failed to progress beyond the last 16 at any of the four grand slams.  This year Rusedski went into the Australian Open having just won the Auckland title. When he met Tim Henman in the third round so many big names had already fallen that he believed he could go all the way, but his challenge was undermined by a strangely inhibited display against his compatriot. It happened again at Wimbledon, when opportunity was knocking and he inexplicably abandoned his attacking game to surrender to Xavier Malisse. Rusedski, who is 29 on 6 September, has acknowledged time is running out.  A year younger to the day, Henman is less prepared to accept age is catching up but does concede failure to go beyond the fourth round at any major championships outside Wimbledon is a woeful return for a player of his talents. Dispassionate analysis of his prospects leads one to conclude that only the perverse nature of sport gives him a chance of improving that record. The facts suggest otherwise and Henman admitted this week the standard of his play at Wimbledon was 'probably my worst in five years'.  Since then Henman has won only four matches in three tournaments and pulled out of the Indianapolis event with a sore shoulder, for which he has been receiving intensive treatment and taking anti-inflammatory tablets.  The other worry for Henman is that at grand-slam level even when he's fully fit there is always someone who can outmuscle him. He was given a warning in Cincinatti when he was blasted off court by Fernando Gonzalez, who now has the chance to announce his arrival at the highest level. Having just turned 22, the Chilean is starting to fulfil his potential with a viciously hard-hitting game that was good enough to take a set from Hewitt in the Cincinnati semi-finals.  At the opposite end of the age scale Andre Agassi can't yet be deemed an outsider, and the 32- year-old can still be expected to reach the latter stages. So far this year, the slams have been disappointing - making the last eight of the French Open has been his best showing. But there are few to match the 1994 and 1999 US Open champion on hardcourts, and victory here would give him his third title of the year on this surface.  Agassi or Andy Roddick would be the people's choice, while in the women's competition it has to be New York-born Jennifer Capriati. Such is the grip of the Williams sisters, however, even the world number three has to be considered an outsider. The hold of Venus and Serena threatens to strangle the life out of the women's tour. The inevitable lack of enmity between sisters means their rivalry lacks the vital edge that made the eras of Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert and Steffi Graf and Monica Seles so compelling.  Martina Hingis and Lindsay Davenport both return to grand-slam tennis after long-term injuries but can hardly be expected to disturb the Williams sisters who are seeded to contest their third consecutive major final of the year. Serena won at Roland Garros and Wimbledon and if she were to win here she would be the first to lift three grand slams in the same year since Hingis in 1997.  The United States Tennis Association is staging a challenge match between John McEnroe and Boris Becker immediately before the women's final to ensure the prime-time Saturday night TV audience is guaranteed something worthwhile. Even allowing for the notoriously poor contests served up by the sisters it is an insult. That genuine international sporting combat is centre stage in New York should be enough.  Iain Carter's predictions: Men's champion: Lleyton Hewitt, Outsider: Fernando Gonzalez Women's champion: Venus Williams, Outsider: Jennifer Capriati · Iain Carter is tennis correspondent of BBC Radio Five Live 