 Elena Baltacha, the last remaining of the four British women who made the main draw of the Australian Open, the best showing for 17 years, has been beaten 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 by the former champion Amelie Mauresmo of France. In tough conditions Baltacha was on course to cause an upset when she took the opening set, and also held a 2-0 lead in the deciding third, but in the end the French woman's far greater experience was crucial. The weather changes from day to day at this tournament, sometimes from hour to hour — four seasons in one day is the local joke. Grey clouds scudded across the city, though it remained immensely hot and more than a little humid in the strong wind. Going for the lines was a risk, and the tennis was often erratic. Mauresmo had a her left thigh strapped, the legacy of a recent injury that forced her out of the pre-Australian Open Sydney tournament. Prior to that she had reached the semi-finals in Brisbane, defeating Serbia's Ana Ivanovic, last year's Australian Open runner-up, and the reigning French Open champion. Baltacha, dressed in black, as Mauresmo used to be in her early days, was quickly in trouble on her serve with the French woman breaking for a 2-1 lead in the opening set. This was the British players fifth match in a week, having won three in qualifying, and she had hoped to make this tell against Mauresmo who was lacking match play. If Baltacha and Mauresmo were to compare medical notes the conversation might go on for many days, both having had more than their share of injury and illness, although the French have always believed that many of Mauresmo's problems have been in her head. For many years it had seemed that she was destined to be the most gifted player never to win a slam, but that was all to change dramatically here three years ago, when she defeated Justin Henin in the final, the little Belgian defaulting. And that same year Mauresmo went on to win Wimbledon, a victory that gave her huge joy. She has never managed to recapture that form since in the slams, and Baltacha, despite the difference in rankings of more than 100 places, felt she had a reasonable chance, especially if she could exert pressure and exploit the French woman's sometimes brittle temperament. This she managed in the first set, breaking back for 2-2, and then stretching out a 5-2 lead. Baltacha served at 5-3, only for her own nerve to temporarily desert her as she began spraying her forehand wide and long. When she clinched the set Baltacha dropped to her haunches in excitement; it had been close, but at this moment there seemed a real possibility that she might repeat her run to the last 32 in 2005. However Mauresmo, indecisive and lacking conviction initially, began to curb her mistakes, while Baltacha's forehand began to let her down badly at crucial moments. The heat rule was in force, allowing the women to take a 10-minute break between the second and third sets. Mauresmo, who will be 30 this year, continued to struggle with her serve, allowing Baltacha to edge ahead again, but the British player could not maintain this initial burst, Mauresmo winning in 2hr 13 min when Baltacha double faulted. 