 For the women cricketers of England, these have been times as never before. World Cup holders, and the Ashes too, and was there a more exhilarating match played in all the summer of 2009 than that at the Oval in which their victory over Australia saw them to the final of the World Twenty20 and ultimate success? Interest in the game has increased massively on the back of such achievement with its consequent impact on take-up, particularly in the junior sections. It is claimed to be the fastest growing female sport in the land. All this is good news. So is that concerning recognition of the players. Less than a month ago, Rachael Heyhoe-Flint, the doyenne of England women cricketers, was appointed to the House of Lords as one of 53 new working peers. Another feather, then, in a much-feathered titfer that has seen her first appointed MBE, and, three years ago, OBE, the first female member of MCC and thus to the committee, appointed to the England and Wales Cricket Board, as women's game director. Then there has been Claire Taylor, the brilliant maths graduate and person of eclectic interests, who instead of pursuing a lucrative career in IT, devoted her youth to becoming the finest female batsman on the planet so that in 2009, Scyld Berry, as editor of Wisden, considered that it would be "a sin of omission, an act of prejudice" not to make her one of the Almanack's celebrated five cricketers of the year, the first female to be so accorded. And, finally, consider Charlotte Edwards, the captain who has led them to all their success. On 17 November, in Colombo, two days before the announcement of Heyhoe-Flint's promotion, she won her 142nd one-day international cap against Sri Lanka, beating the Australian stalwart Karen Rolton's total of 141, to become the most capped women's one-day player of them all. It is a magnificent achievement, deserving of more coverage, but unfortunately timed with the build-up to the first Test in Brisbane. Next month, Edwards and her team will be arriving in Australia, not just to defend the Ashes (albeit over one match only) but to play five ODIs and two T20 games, one of which will precede England's match against Australia at the MCG on 14 January. The exposure from that can only serve to enhance the perception of women's cricket as skilful and entertaining. But there the good news ends. Sarah Taylor, the star wicketkeeper-batsman, and at 21 with the cricket world ahead of her, will not be touring, not as a result of injury or infirmity, but because she cannot afford it. I think we need to understand the enormity of this decision, to turn down the opportunity to play for England in Australia. She has been playing, and succeeding for England since she was 17 and is unchallenged as the best wicketkeeper-batsman in women's cricket. Her batting average in ODIs, which is the predominant form of the game internationally, is 37.62. Her performance standing up to the stumps on that memorable night at The Oval was not exceeded by any keeper I saw all summer. Indeed, there is a case in my mind for suggesting that from the standpoint of her keeping alone she is the best women's cricketer in the world, and perhaps of all time, certainly for England, in as much as she is the only one who could comfortably compete with men at first-class level. Taylor's withdrawal may be the iceberg's tip. Certainly Claire Taylor will not continue playing for long, and probably Edwards as well. These, though, are long servants. Sarah Taylor is young and yet already questioning the commitment she can give to the game. It is certainly a problem that Clare Connor, the former England captain and now ECB head of women's cricket, acknowledges. "Sarah has been playing for England since she was 17 non-stop and decided at the end of the summer she wanted to consider what she would want to do career-wise," she said. "She has already achieved so much at 21, but she has had to stop and think about how to make ends meet, how to pay the rent and get a job. That is a struggle most sportswomen at the top level have." At present, says Connor, England players are treated very well, but not salaried, paid neither by the ECB nor counties. There is no benefit system to help compensate, no pension rights. Seven England players coach at grassroots level through the Chance to Shine initiative, but, as Connor points out, not everyone is born to be a coach. Of course, Connor and ECB are not blind to the problem. There are tentative plans to semi-professionalise so that future women cricketers can make the game a career choice, but budgets are tight. Instead, it is Connor's belief that the more immediate future of England women's cricket may be entirely based around those aged 16 to 22 or 23, before the responsibilities of careers take over. Consider that at Sarah Taylor's age, her namesake Claire was an outstanding hockey player but modest batsman, and that it took 10 hard years of coaching and determination to achieve what she has, and you will appreciate the problem. There will be so much talent there, but it might never achieve potential. England have set the benchmark for women's cricket in recent years, but as it stands it cannot last. It is very sad. 