 Gautam Gambhir was the mainstay for India on the final day of the decisive third Test in Cape Town, with his determined half-century earning his country a fighting draw and their first shared series in South Africa. The injured opener hit 64 from 184 balls, and Rahul Dravid (31 from 112) and the unbeaten Sachin Tendulkar (14 from 91) also played their part as the tourists battled well to end on 166 for three when Graeme Smith decided to give in. By then, the world's top side had batted for 82 overs in pursuit of the 340 victory target which was set on a deteriorating Newlands track on which India's batsmen had coped admirably. It meant that India had salvaged a series draw in a country where they had lost all four previous tours. The deciding factor on day five was in the opening stages when the new ball was in the hands of Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel. India survived that early onslaught with strong determination, with the only setback being the loss of Virender Sehwag (11). South Africa's main pacemen continuously tested the batsmen during the early exchanges, with their 10-over partnership yielding plenty of plays and misses but no real edges that gave the fielders a chance. The only scare in the first hour came in the second over when Gambhir was struck flush on the elbow by a steepling Morkel delivery that forced a few minutes' delay as the batsman received treatment from the physio. The hosts should have had their breakthrough when Lonwabo Tsotsobe was introduced in the 11th over but JP Duminy failed to hold a difficult chance at point offered by Sehwag. But Morkel ensured his side did not pay for the miss after the dangerman poked at another probing ball shortly after and was caught by Smith at first slip. The out-of-form Dravid was next in and helped Gambhir take India past 50 three overs before lunch, which they entered with the score on 53 for one. After the break, Gambhir and Dravid raised their half-century stand from 137 deliveries. The opener went past 50 in 103 balls with a boundary through the cover region but then saw his partner handed a major reprieve at the other end. A full delivery from Paul Harris kept low to Dravid but the umpire Ian Gould seemed to have thought there was an edge before the ball struck the pads, therefore turning down the big appeal. The visitors went past 100 in the 45th over but again the batsman was out straight after he was given a life. This time a full Tsotsobe delivery kicked off the surface as Dravid tried to defend and he instead edged to Ashwell Prince at third slip. That sparked a little bit of panic for the Indians but Gambhir and the new batsman Tendulkar were put down in quick succession, both times by AB de Villiers off the bowling of Harris. Seven deliveries after Dravid fell, a leading edge from the opener was grassed at silly point, with Tendulkar then seeing a slight edge on to his thigh pad put down at leg slip in Harris's next over. That left the South Africans frustrated with India on 114 for two at tea. Gambhir's dogged resistance finally ended 6.3 overs after tea when a Steyn bouncer brushed his gloves on the leg side on its way to Mark Boucher. VVS Laxman (32 not out) joined Tendulkar and although the runs were kept in check, the bowlers battled to create any chances against some cautious batting. South Africa kept on fighting in the hope that one wicket might bring two and with the new ball shortly available. But India went past 150 in the 75th over and the new ball was given just two overs before Smith shook hands with the batsmen as the visitors earned a deserved draw. 