 How best to measure the extent of Rafael Nadal's dominance on the red clay of Roland Garros? The Spaniard's clinical 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 semi-final victory over Novak Djokovic was his 27th in succession at the French Open. He has never been beaten at the tournament, winning it three times in a row, and now stands within one victory of equalling Bjorn Borg's open-era record of four consecutive titles. It seems almost unimaginable that he will not break the Swedish master's landmark. He is 22 years old. Nothing, though, could speak more eloquently of Nadal's Parisian mastery than the ruthless ease with which - a late but ultimately futile show of tenacity from his beleaguered opponent aside - he roundly humbled Djokovic, the reigning Australian Open champion, world No3 and most consistent performer on the men's tour this year.  Djokovic, who turned up expecting a play-off for the world No2 ranking, must for the most part have felt like a spectator at his own execution. There is a smooth elegance about Djokovic in full flight, but Nadal at times made him look awkward, throwing the Serb off balance with a relentless barrage of ground strokes.  Forced to save a break point as early as the opening game, Djokovic was broken in the third and was never again in genuine contention until the closing stages, when a spirited fightback saw him break Nadal as the Spaniard served for the match at 5-4 in the third set. It was to prove only a temporary reprieve. Nadal held firm to take the set into a tie-break before opening up a 6-0 lead with another baseline deluge. Djokovic tenaciously clawed back three match points, but the fourth proved a challenge too far, Nadal angling away a smash to reach the final Sunday for the fourth year in a row.  Victory would bring the Spaniard level with Henri Cochet, the legendary French musketeer of the 1920s and 30s. Only Borg, who lifted the Coupe des Mousquetaires six times, and Max Décugis, whose record eight titles came in the days when the tournament was open only to French citizens, have won more. History may yet prove Nadal's most formidable opponent. 