 Tim Henman is hoping he can improve on an already impressive record against Roger Federer when the pair meet in the quarter-finals of the NASDAQ-100 Open in Miami tomorrow. Although world No1 Federer has won their last two encounters, Henman still holds a 6-3 advantage in career meetings with the Swiss sensation. British No1 Henman, seeded six at this ATP Masters Series event, moved into the last eight with a 7-6, 6-3 beating of temperamental Czech Radek Stepanek. Top seed Federer, 23, survived a tough encounter with Croatia's Mario Ancic, dropping a set for the second successive match before prevailing 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 against the 18th seed. Looking ahead to Thursday's clash, 30-year-old Henman joked: "I'm one of the few guys who has a good record against Roger, although I think I beat him a couple of times when he was just 13 or 14. More recently he's taken the game to a new level and his record over the last 16 months has been phenomenal. But there will be no pressure or expectation on me so I can just focus on the things I'm doing well and see what happens. "He's had a couple of tough matches, dropping a set against (Mariano) Zabaleta and Ancic, and hopefully I can create a few opportunities. I've already beaten him six times so let's hope I can make it seven." The pair flew to Miami together on a private jet and Federer admitted they are good friends off the court. "We're good buddies. We get along well," said last year's Wimbledon champion. "But he gives you a tough match because he keeps coming at you. "I think outdoors he's not as good as indoors, but I still won't underestimate him. I've lost to him several times and I expect a tough match." Henman appeared to be in trouble against Stepanek when the Czech produced the first service break of the match to lead 5-4 in the opening set. However, the Briton broke back immediately, firing in some solid returns and putting Stepanek under pressure by then dominating the net. The tide had turned in Henman's favour and two games later he was a set up as Stepanek was guilty of some wayward play both at the net and from the baseline. Two woeful backhands from Stepanek gifted Henman another break in game four of the second set. Henman now had to do nothing more than win his next three service games and he did that with relative ease, although he did have to avoid one pot-shot at his head from a frustrated Stepanek as he stood over the net. "If I'd lost that first set it wouldn't have been ideal but I still felt comfortable," Henman added. "In the second set my level went up and I was always in control." 