 There is much of the cold assassin about Andy Murray's current play. His emotions are under almost perfect control, apart from the few odd mutterings, and he goes about his business with a poise and purpose that reinforces his position as the fourth best player in the world. And if yesterday's 6-3, 7-6 victory over Spain's Fernando Verdasco was something of a grind, then today's quarter-final against David Nalbandian, defending the Paris Masters title, has the potential to be an outstanding contest of high-class shot-making. The two have met only once before, with the Argentinian winning from two sets down 3½ years ago at Wimbledon, the first time that Murray played on Centre Court. That was an extraordinary match as Murray, making his All England Club debut as a callow 18-year-old, and ranked outside the top 300, dominated the opening, with much gesturing and many roars of delight, only to run out of adrenaline and suffer from cramp. "It was one of the best matches of that year for me, and the first time I had played a top, top player," Murray said after his victory over Verdasco. "But there is a big difference between me now and who I was then." Up until this year's Wimbledon, and including the fourth-round Centre Court victory over France's Richard Gasquet, Murray's matches were frequently imbued with a large element of the dramatic. It seemed intrinsic to his nature. Now a quiet and calculating professionalism pervades, those emotional eruptions having been contained within a carapace of strict control born of complete on- and off-court confidence. Murray knows his worth. He knows that being ranked behind only Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic has won him the respect of fellow professionals and given him a solid base to achieve his goal of winning a grand slam title. This was his 14th consecutive victory, a run that has encompassed back-to-back tournament victories at the Madrid Masters and the St Petersburg Open. And should he win the title this week, he would become the first man ever to win three consecutive Masters Series events. That is a level that neither Tim Henman nor Greg Rusedski came close to achieving, though Murray remains loth to make comparisons. Such runs of success - and it is 34-4 since the French Open - need ultimately to be relished during quiet moments of reflection. Nalbandian, the 2002 Wimbledon runner-up, has the ability to bring the run to an end for on this court last year he defeated Federer and Nadal. It is a challenge that Murray will relish. "David is arguably a better player than when I met him at Wimbledon. It's not like he had a bad year but because he hasn't done that well in the slams people tend to think he is not playing particularly well," he said. "He picks his schedule very well and is usually fresher than the other players at the end of the year, when he plays great." Last year Nalbandian won the Madrid and Paris Masters and yesterday he defeated his fellow Argentinian Juan Martin del Potro 6-4, 6-0. After playing his previous match on the main court, Murray found himself relegated to Court One, a small and cramped arena with a ceiling so comparatively low that many of today's towering players might feel the need to duck. Such was the lurch from one to another that is seemed as if the Masters has suddenly been transformed into an obscure minor event with only a few hundred watching. "I was just amazed how fast the court was compared to the Centre," he said. The serve dominated, with only one break point in the match. This came shortly after Verdasco had received an appalling call when 40-0 up and was serving to level at 4-4. His forehand was clearly in but called out. And there was no Hawk-Eye. The Spaniard imploded horribly to lose the set. Thereafter Murray appeared a shade weary, falling behind in the tie-break before Verdasco missed a simple overhead for a 6-4 lead, and then did not win another point. Earlier Andy Roddick clinched his place at the Tennis Masters Cup with a 6-3, 7-5 win over Gilles Simon of France to join Nadal, Federer, Djokovic, Murray and Nikolay Davydenko. Two places remain open. 