 It has never been easy trying to gauge what goes on in the mind of some Pakistan cricketers but it is safe to say that Danish Kaneria does not go to bed at night thinking fluffy thoughts about the Lancashire groundsman Peter Marron. Kaneria's reputation on the international circuit has been built on one of the best googlies in the game and an increasingly clinical ability to make use of crumbling last-day wickets. But, whereas Steve Harmison said on Thursday evening he had been waiting for a pitch like this for about eight months, Kaneria has probably spent much of the last year tossing and turning at the prospect of coming back to a venue that is becoming the stuff of feverish nightmares. A year ago the Pakistan leg-spinner arrived at Old Trafford full of hope while playing for Essex against Lancashire in the county championship and left a desolate figure. He described ending with figures of none for 208 in 70.2 overs as the most embarrassing day of his career, which seemed reasonable enough given that only two other bowlers had sent down more than his 422 deliveries without taking a wicket in a single first-class innings. Yesterday was not quite so bad in statistical terms but roughly 100 times worse in terms of exposure. Whereas it sometimes feels as if the players outnumber the spectators in county matches, this was watched by a capacity crowd of 17,000, the overwhelming majority of whom had little sympathy for a series of stifled Kaneria appeals that were met with stony indifference by Steve Bucknor. Kaneria's plight was all the more harrowing for the comparisons with the spinner on the other side. After two overs on Thursday Monty Panesar had taken two wickets without conceding a run. It took Kaneria until the last ball of his 36th over to get one, and that was courtesy of a reverse-sweep from Harmison that felt more like a piece of mickey-taking. The only consolation was that Mushtaq Ahmed, who had come into the reckoning for this match, finished with one for 92 for Sussex against Warwickshire at Edgbaston. Inzamam-ul-Haq might also prefer to leave the July 28 page on his diary untouched. There were moments yesterday when his captaincy felt as if it was being done by numbers. When Paul Collingwood came out to bat, Inzamam immediately posted two gullies. The plan remained in place for Ian Bell and one began to wonder if Pakistan had seen something England had not. But when the two fielders refused to budge as Geraint Jones came to the crease, one suspected Inzy forgot why he put them there in the first place. The tactic was dispensed with for Matthew Hoggard but by that stage England led by nearly 240. England, meanwhile, are considering taking Andrew Flintoff, Ashley Giles and Simon Jones to the Champions Trophy in India in October to help their recovery from injury in time for the Ashes, which begin on November 23.  "If they are close enough to playing cricket again, it will be one of the options we will consider," said a spokesman for the England and Wales Cricket Board. 