 It was the showdown that the England v Pakistan Test series has yearned for: Shoaib Akhtar v Kevin Pietersen, unfettered aggression between bat and ball. Old Trafford will not witness the clash of the rock and roll cricketers when the second Test begins on Thursday, but a few miles down the road in Heaton Park yesterday battle was joined. Well, battle might be a little strong. In fact joined is an exaggeration too. But in a summer cursed by injuries you have to take your pleasures where you can. Vaguely watching Shoaib lob a few deliveries at Pietersen on a north Manchester helipad - all to promote urbancricket.com - is probably as good as we were going to get. At least if Shoaib inflamed his ankle injury he was conveniently placed for the air ambulance to land. Pietersen gives urban cricket - Npower's noble attempt to leave our inner cities knee-deep in garish plastic cricket bats - an undoubted style. Yesterday Shoaib added the grunge. He trudged up, all in black, as if he was not entirely sure why he was there. You half expected him to suggest to Pietersen that they should go and hang around the Arndale Centre instead. "He's a lot more friendly with a soft ball," said Pietersen, "although he hasn't lost his competitive edge - he still chucked in a couple of bouncers. I would love to be playing against him for real this week. Facing someone bowling at 95mph is a great challenge, even if it's not always great fun. You don't get quite the same kick when he's not there." Shoaib finally succumbed to knee and ankle problems in February but he dates his ankle stress fracture back to the Faisalabad Test against England before Christmas, four Tests earlier. He routinely plays along with speculation that he might return before the end of this summer's four-Test series - it keeps England guessing - but the emphasis remains on getting him fit for next year's World Cup. He is in England primarily to train with Warwickshire, so that Pakistan can more easily monitor his recovery rate. "I'm fully healed," he said. "I'm recovering well but I'm taking my time. I tried to come back too early. I twisted and fell over my leg and opened up the ankle fracture again. Now the management is not rushing me. They do not want to push me as I have not had a bowl for five months. It's very important for me and for my country that I stay fit for the World Cup." Warwickshire's willingness to assist with Shoaib's recovery, even though he will not play a single game for them, exemplifies the sort of fellowship which the England and Wales Cricket Board hopes that Australia will show to Andrew Flintoff by allowing him to join an Australian club in late October so that he can recover from his impending ankle surgery in time for the Ashes. Pietersen urged Australia to show the same camaraderie. "Why be horrible?" he asked. "Why make enemies? Everyone in the cricketing world would want to watch Freddie bowling flat out in the Ashes series. We want to see him on the field. Hopefully Australia will view it the same way." Cricket Australia's immediate response has been to pass the buck to the state associations. "It's still a hypothetical situation," a spokesman told the Melbourne Age yesterday. "It's an area that would be looked at by the state associations. There are no statutes that we are aware of that would prevent it being possible." 