 A steamy, tension-packed finale awaits after four gruelling days under the Gauteng sun. England, stung by the dismissal of their captain to a vicious Morne Morkel lifter, have to bat for 90 overs. They have nine wickets in hand. The victory target of 364 is surely way beyond them even in this century of helter-skelter cricket. A thunderstorm gathered over the ground in those closing overs and Morkel, confidence buoyed by a little swashbuckling innings (22 from 13 balls) that enabled his captain to declare earlier than expected, thundered in from the Hennops River End. The ball flew past the chins of England's left-handers on a pitch where the shooter had been identified as the most lethal delivery. In the circumstances England could almost be grateful that they lost just the one wicket during a torrid 25-minute session even if that was their most accomplished player of long innings. Andrew Strauss could do little about a steeply rising delivery directed at his body, edging it to the keeper. So James Anderson was exposed to one of his sternest tests as a nightwatchman. He hung on gamely, playing and missing frequently, stuck at Morkel's end, which was not the end to be for anyone eager to resume his innings tomorrow. By luck or judgment Alastair Cook avoided Morkel. It was stressful enough facing Makhaya Ntini and Paul Harris at the other end, but not so dangerous. This was an agonising end to a day, which promised so much more for the tourists. England sweated buckets on the hottest, stickiest day of the Test: the fielding was zestful and zealous and three stalwart pacemen pounded in willingly on a surface that has possessed fewer demons than most expected – except for one delivery that had Hashim Amla's name on it. Amla will not mind that. By the time he was in receipt of an unplayable grubber from Anderson, he had hit a beautifully composed hundred, which had stabilised South Africa's innings. On pitching, Amla's last delivery barely left the ground before striking the off-stump. Just what South Africa wanted to see. That shooter highlights the magnitude of England's task on the final day. They will need resolve, skill and some good fortune to get to Durban with the series level. But when the South Africans were 46 for four after 90 minutes of play they had higher expectations. At this point Jacques Kallis was heading back to the dressing room. Until then England had been superb, yielding nothing to hit, buzzing around in the field and pressurising their opponents into error. Harris, the South African nightwatchman, is a quirky batsman and he endured a quirky dismissal. His final ball from Anderson was going down the leg-side, but it struck Harris's left pad and was somehow redirected on to the stumps, a rare moment of good fortune for England's pacemen. Soon after Graham Onions found the inside edge of Graeme Smith's bat and again the ball cannoned on to the stumps. Now there were was real tension out there and real possibilities. Kallis was becalmed, scoring four from 31 balls when Stuart Broad banged the ball into the pitch. Kallis hooked in the air and on the square-leg boundary Cook, perilously near the rope, judged the catch perfectly. The next critical moment came three overs later and inevitably it involved a review. An off-break from Graeme Swann struck Amla's back pad and the appeal was rejected. Nearly everything was right but Hawk-Eye had the ball clipping the top of off-stump, which meant that the "not out" verdict of Aleem Dar was upheld. Soon after AB de Villiers came down the pitch to drive another off-break on to the grassy bank. That was the first suggestion that the moment may have passed for England. De Villiers now began to play with a freedom beyond any of his fellow batsmen, cover-driving sweetly and gliding between the wickets at startling pace. After lunch he was perilously close to being lbw to Onions. This time Steve Davis rejected the appeal. England hesitated and went for the review. Again, all but one of the criteria was satisfied; the ball was only clipping the leg-stump. If a prime goal of the International Cricket Council is to persuade fielding captains to use the review only for obvious howlers, England's experience must be leading the players in that direction. There is logic to the system but the tourists do not seem to be relishing its introduction or exploiting it successfully. Currently the review scorecard reads: England, five reviews requested, all five lost. South Africa have requested seven, winning three of them. De Villiers was eventually dismissed by Broad thanks to a fine, diving catch at short extra cover by Ian Bell. JP Duminy fell lbw to Anderson after requesting a review but this did not stall South Africa's progress. Mark Boucher was at his perkiest, crunching Swann for a six over long-on and racing to his half‑century in 58 balls. Then came Amla's dismissal, which would not normally be a trigger for South African celebration. This was surely the grubber of the century. A man who judged everything superbly for more than five hours had no chance of laying bat on a ball that scuttled along the ground. Sir Geoffrey could not have played that delivery. Nor even Sir Donald. 