 Australia's selectors have given their injured captain Ricky Ponting the strongest possible indication that they want him to lead the side in the Boxing Day Test at the MCG by refusing to name a batting replacement in an unchanged 12 for the fourth Test. Ponting broke the little finger of his left hand when fielding on the third evening and he remained off the field as Australia, under the captaincy of Michael Clarke, wrapped up England's last five wickets in 10 overs. Their 267-run win was a first victory in six Tests, with Mitchell Johnson and Ryan Harris picking up nine wickets each against a side dismissed for 187 and 123. Ponting admitted that he may delay his decision on whether to lead Australia in Melbourne until the morning of the match, but he is desperate to play, thinks he has every chance of doing so and Australia's selectors have given him every encouragement in an Ashes series that, at 1-1 with two to play, has come alive. "I have to have as much treatment as possible over the next few days," he said. "I won't be able to bat in that time but we have a few days off anyway. I am just going to rest it as much as possible. I think I have a really good chance of playing. It's only a small fracture. It's a bit sore and a bit angry at the moment, but I'll be right." Ponting might have to remove himself from the slip cordon but as a right-hand batsman, he could not break a less important finger. His opposite number, Andrew Strauss, also thinks that the pain will not be an issue. "It's an individual thing about how your hands feel around your bat," he said. "It's never so much the pain. It is if it restricts your ability to bat." Ponting, 36 today, is driven by the desire to play a central part in protecting Australia's unbeaten home record in Ashes series since the mid-80s and to ensure he does not have the misfortune of becoming only the second captain in their history to lose three Ashes series. A road-safety campaign playing in what is now his home state of New South Wales sums up his mood. An anti-speeding advert displays a bent little finger – Ponting style – with the advice "Don't be a soft cock". It is advice that Ponting, however disorientated his own finger, is determined to follow. He does have memories, however, of his ill-advised decision to play in the Boxing Day Test against the West Indies almost a year ago. Then, too, he was injured in Perth, suffering tendon damage when he was struck on an elbow by the West Indies quick Kemar Roach. Ponting played at the MCG and made a half-century in the first innings, but was hampered by the injury. "I honestly think that the little finger of my left hand is not as significant as my top elbow was last year," he said. "I had all sorts of treatments leading up to Melbourne last year and there is no doubt that I was hindered last year. "To tell you the truth, I learned a bit from that, so I am not going to be silly and put myself ahead of the team, especially in such an important game. If I don't think that I can function well then I won't play, but if I feel that I can function somewhere near how I expect to play then I'll play the game." Ponting had pressed for four fast bowlers in Perth and from the moment that Mitchell Johnson tore through the batting on the second afternoon, with England losing five for 20 in eight overs, four of the wickets to Johnson, Australia's hold never weakened. England, who could hardly drop their spinner, Graeme Swann, ranked No2 in the world, barely bowled him and relied upon three increasingly put-upon quicks. "Mitchell's spell was unbelievable, one of the all-time great Ashes spells," Ponting said. "To have that happen when it did, considering that he came in to the game under a little bit of pressure as well, was an amazing achievement. It set up this victory and it has set up the series for us. "It has transformed him, and it has transformed the way everybody talks about him and thinks about him as a bowler, whether among the media or most importantly in the English dressing room. England will now be thinking seriously about the way that they play him. I heard some whispers coming into the game that they had his type of bowling worked out. They are not saying that now. "You would like to think that spell would have got anybody out. You don't end up with a record like his by fluke. When you look at the difference between his bowling in Brisbane [during the first Test] and here, he has worked exceptionally hard and it has had a great effect on the Test match and, I think, the series. He now has as much confidence as he has had in his Test career." Ponting must be seriously tempted to field four quicks again in Melbourne and to press the groundstaff to produce the sort of spicy conditions they need. On the surface, however, he was trying to maintain a sense of proportion. "We need to pick our best four bowlers to fit the conditions. We will have to decide if a spinner might have a significant impact as the game wears on in Melbourne. "But the four fast bowlers worked very well here. If we are playing with that sort of emotion it normally means great things for our team. We have set ourselves a new set of standards. It is important that we maintain them. We have had a better team performance than we have for a long time." 