 Opener Paul Horton featured in his second double-century stand in consecutive Roses matches as Lancashire worked their way into a strong position on the second day of the latest round of County Championship matches. Horton (137) and Mohammad Yousuf (93) put on an unbroken 234 at Headingley to leave Lancashire on 243 for two in reply to Yorkshire's 395.  In the morning, Tim Bresnan finished on 64 not out then made his mark with the ball, trapping Iain Sutcliffe leg before for nought in his first over. Mal Loye also departed lbw for a duck, shortly after lunch, and it would have been 12 for three if Anthony McGrath had held a fast and low left-handed chance at first slip from Yousuf off Bresnan. It proved to be an expensive miss. At the close, Horton had faced 234 balls, hitting 21 fours, while Yousuf had received 161 deliveries and punched nine fours and a six. Fine centuries from skipper Dale Benkenstein and Will Smith saw Durham recover from 11 for four to post 301 and gain a valuable first innings lead of 87 over champions Sussex. The home team quickly found trouble when they batted again at Hove, losing openers Chris Nash and Carl Hopkinson by the close in struggling to 15 for two. Darren Stevens made the most of his luck after being dropped three times to hit 127 for Kent against Hampshire at the Rose Bowl, in a game that lost its first day to the effects of overnight rain. Martin van Jaarsveld also reached a century in the last over as Kent finished on a respectable 294 for four after Hampshire had won the toss. In Division Two, Leicestershire took a firm grip on their fixture against Glamorgan at Grace Road, thanks to fine contributions from four of their South Africans. By the close the visitors were a precarious 99 for six, still 291 runs behind the home side's first innings total of 390. HD Ackerman completed his fourth Championship century of the season for Leicestershire while Jacques du Toit made an eye-catching 63. Then Dillon du Preez claimed three quick wickets and South African colleague Boeta Dippenaar held on to a hat-trick of stunning slip catches. Two wickets in his only two balls of the morning by Simon Jones gave Worcestershire the momentum to take charge of their match with Essex at New Road. Essex folded for 116 to give the home side a first-innings advantage of 60. Opener Daryl Mitchell and Ben Smith then completed half-centuries as Worcestershire established a lead of 288, closing on 228 for five. A ninth-wicket partnership of 90 from Ben Scott and Shaun Udal rescued Middlesex against Derbyshire at Lord's. The hosts managed to scrap their way to 262 all out, giving them an 18-run lead, and at stumps Derbyshire were struggling on 49 for two in their second innings. Udal came in to bat with his team struggling on 172 for eight, but helped put the game back in the balance. Ian Westwood and Jim Troughton made half-centuries to guide Warwickshire out of trouble against Gloucestershire. Replying to the home side's 420, Warwickshire slumped to 32 for three at Gloucester before Westwood and Troughton put on 100 in a patient partnership that occupied 44 overs. Earlier, Chris Taylor had taken his overnight 72 on to 104 as Gloucestershire's last four wickets added 86 runs. 