 So that’s that. A decent tournament comes to an end – it’s not been a classic but it’s not been too bad. We had one competitive match out of seven in the knockout stages, which has been a bit of a disappointment but the group stages provided some great moments and the South Africa/New Zealand semi was a game for the ages. And the best team won. Thanks for your company and emails throughout the tournament. Stick around on site for all the reports and reaction. And we’ll see you in the West Indies in a couple of weeks! Updated
 Here’s Michael Clarke: “We’ve played this World Cup with 16 players. This victory is dedicated to our little brother Phillip Hughes. 
 Here’s Brendon McCullum: “It’s been one helluva ride. We ran into an outstanding Australia team tonight, who continue to set the standard. In the end we were the second best team on the day, all credit to Australia.” 
 Here’s Shane Watson: “It’s what I’ve always dreamed of. For us to play as well as we did was just incredible. We knew we had to be absolutely at our best and we were.” Shane Warne’s line of questioning is very beer-focussed. 
 And here’s George Bailey: “Unreal. It was as special as it gets. Playing in front of a crowd like that must’ve been phenomenal.” And Glenn Maxwell: “That was as good as it gets.” I think everybody is pretty happy. 
 Here’s Steve Smith: “Unbelievable feeling. To win this three-down in the final, I think the boys were outstanding.” And here’s Mitchell Starc: “There were plenty of nerves, it was an amazing feeling. [The McCullum wicket] was a plan me and Craig McDermott had been working on for a couple of days.” 
 Here’s Darren Lehmann: “They’ve been fantastic over the six weeks. The support we’ve had has been unbelievable.” And Lehmann gets a bucket of Gatorade tipped over his head. “That’s why I love ‘em.” 
 Here’s David Warner: “I’ve lost my voice. It’s a magical feeling.” And Brad Haddin: “It was special. The staff have been challenging us to play the perfect game and we’ve produced it in the biggest game. We’re looking forward to sharing a beer with everyone in the building.” 
 Steve Smith ends unbeaten on 56. Fitting for Smith to hit the winning runs. The new era's man stands at the pinnacle; takes in the view. #CWC15 
 Smith pulls to leg for four and it’s all over. Australia win by seven wickets. The final was a bit of a letdown really, but there’s no question that the best team in the tournament have won it. Updated
 33rd over: Australia 182-3 (Watson 2, Smith 52) Southee almost does for Smith from the penultimate ball of the over with a superb yorker. Smith shrugs with a half-smile that says “Well bowled”. A single from the last takes Australia to within two runs of victory as the team strain at the bit on the boundary. 
 32nd over: Australia 180-3 (Watson 1, Smith 51) McCullum was the first to rush over to Clarke to shake his hand after that wicket. Good to see. A shame he couldn’t finish it off, but at least he got his own send off. Smith goes to his 50, his fifth on the bounce. He has been incredible, and a little bit terrifying if you’re an England fan whose thoughts are beginning to stray to the Ashes. 
 Henry returns and wangs down a leg side wide. But he follows that up by wriggling one through Clarke’s defences. There’s clearly a lump in his throat as he walks off to another ovation. Updated
 31st over: Australia 174-2 (Clarke 74, Smith 47) The attendance at the MCG is 93,013, which is a record for a cricket match at the ground. And it’s party time in the stands as Clarke clumps Southee down to cow corner for a one-bounce four then clatters a wide one outside off through extra cover for four more. The third of the over is thrashed through point for four more, and the fourth follows suit! Four on the bounce for Clarke, who is going out with a bang. Seventeen from the over. Ten more required. 
 30th over: Australia 157-2 (Clarke 57, Smith 47) Between overs we get a plinky piano music montage of Clarke’s innings – the kind of musical accompaniment you get in a Zac Efron film while he wistfully yet determinedly sands down the hull of his boat. The Australia captain adds another moment for the post-match montage with a classical drive as Boult overpitches in search of a yorker. And the bowler ends his tournament with a dot ball. 
 29th over: Australia 151-2 (Clarke 52, Smith 46) Smith cuts Southee for two then thick edges over and wide of the slips for four. From the next he looks to thrash the ball off towards Tasmania but inside edges back past his stumps for two more. New Zealand were always going to need a chunky slice of luck and they’ve got really had any. Clarke mis-hits a drive from a full toss but gets just enough on it to take it over the top of McCullum at mid off. He hares off after the ball, of course, but there’s something tragically futile about it now. “New Zealanders are getting to experience what the rest of the world feels watching the All Blacks,” writes Sam Lobascher. 
 28th over: Australia 140-2 (Clarke 50, Smith 37) Boult continues to surge in and the batsmen are remaining circumspect and respectful despite the proximity of victory. There’s been nary a hint of a cross-batted slog, not that that shot is particularly part of either batsman’s game. Smith clips a single into the leg side and that’s the only run of the over. 
 27th over: Australia 139-2 (Clarke 50, Smith 36) Clarke tucks Vettori into the leg side for a single that takes him to a half century. The MCG stands as one to applaud. It’s been a cracking little knock, whatever your view of his retirement announcement yesterday. 
 26th over: Australia 134-2 (Clarke 47, Smith 34) Trent Boult, with three more overs in the bag, returns with Australia 54 runs from victory. Clarke keeps out the first three then sends a bump ball through to the keeper. And from the last he drives fluidly back past the bowler for four. This game has reached the rarely-seen 'Kiwis solemnly hugging each other' stage. #CWC2015 
 25th over: Australia 130-2 (Clarke 43, Smith 34) Vettori can barely get through his bowling action but he’s still hopping in for his team. The batsmen make like angry dairy farmers and milk furiously. That is until the fifth delivery, from which Clarke skips down the track and lofts the ball casually into the stands at long off. 
 24th over: Australia 119-2 (Clarke 33, Smith 33) Corey Anderson, who Bowls A Heavy Ball, into the attack for the first time. People talk about him having a golden arm but New Zealand need something diamond encrusted at this point. Clarke drives just wide of the man at short cover and they jog through for three. Smith, playing with zen-like calm, clips one off his hip for two more. 
 23rd over: Australia 112-2 (Clarke 30, Smith 30) Henry offers Clarke too much width and Clarke punches through the covers. McCullum hares after it like a man possessed and makes a brilliant diving stop on the rope to save a solitary run. He clearly hasn’t given up the ghost yet. But then CLONK! Clarke biffs one down to long on for four. Updated
 22nd over: Australia 103-2 (Clarke 23, Smith 28) Clarke calmly lofts Vettori back over his head for a single. A Mexican wave ripples around the ground.  Aua just ticking along now. in control. 
 21st over: Australia 100-2 (Clarke 22, Smith 26) Henry charges in once more with the fields getting ever more attacking, for Clarke at least. Smith dinks away a single to leg that brings up the Australia 100.  And at the end of the over cue more banging beats over the Tannoy, a slightly incongruous musical blast given the pretty flat stuff out in the middle. 
 20th over: Australia 98-2 (Clarke 21, Smith 25) Daniel Vettori returns. Will he throw away the glasses and tear his shirt to reveal the Superman beneath? Clarke Kent has a limp, though, and the batsmen nudge three more onto the scoreboard. 
 19th over: Australia 95-2 (Clarke 19, Smith 24) Lovely stuff from Smith, who guides one of his trademark slippery-as-greased-silk drives through the covers for three runs that take Australia to within double figures of the target. Clarke adds another boundary by rocking back and flicking over the top of Luke Ronchi for four more. From the fifth ball, a slashing drive flies wide of Guptill at gully. Twelve from the over thanks in no small part to the attacking field New Zealand have to run with. Just 89 more required. 