 Captain Mohammad Nabil Coach Andy Moles CWC best Debutants Prospects Considering Afghanistan were in the World Cricket League’s Division Five in 2008, alongside such giants as Norway and Jersey (and were a division below Italy and Fiji), reaching the 2015 tournament is a stunning achievement. Factor in the situation in the country and it is close to miraculous.They do have major tournament experience and, though they have not shone in three World T20 campaigns, they did give India a scare in 2012 and will fancy their chances of sending at least one of the big boys into a panic. They have beaten both Ireland and Scotland in 2015 but were soundly outplayed by UAE in a four-match series late last year. Key man Nawroz Mangal The former captain is likely to open the innings and is probably the side’s most accomplished batsman. Prediction At least one victory and one they-can’t-can-they? moment. Captain Michael Clarke Coach Darren Lehmann CWC best Winners in 1987, 1999, 2003 and 2007 Prospects The hosts, the favourites, the team to beat. The doldrums of early 2013 seem an eternity ago – this is now a side blessed with enviable firepower with bat and ball, and one that has won 11 of its last 13 ODIs. Michael Clarke’s side are equally comfortable when chasing (as they showed when knocking off England’s 303 in Hobart) or when setting a target. If there is a weak link, it could be either in their spin department (although on home soil that is unlikely to prove much of a hindrance) or in the uncertainty over Clarke’s fitness, but both George Bailey and Steve Smith have proved able deputies. James Faulkner’s side-strain threatens the balance of the side in the early fixtures but they should cruise deep into the competition. Key man Mitchell Johnson Chief match-winner in a team that is chock full of them. In the unlikely event of the batting order failing, the presence of an in-form Johnson means even modest targets may prove defendable. Prediction: No team is better equipped to deal with the pressure of hosting. Winners. Captain Mashrafe Mortaza Coach Chandika Hathurusingha CWC best 7th in 2007 (Super Eights) Prospects Always a threat but not quite the dangerous underdogs they were in 2007 and 2011. Whitewashed Zimbabwe 5-0 in an ODI series in November and December but have not beaten one of the top eight since a trio of wins against New Zealand in 2013. The squad is a mixed bag of reliable of old stagers and unproven talent. Indeed nowhere is the gap between experience and youth more stark – Bangladesh’s five most capped players in the squad (Mashrafe Mortaza, Mohammad Mahmudullah, Mushfiqur Rahim, Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal) have played 672 ODIs between them, the other 10 a combined 174. If they click with the bat, then the capacity for upsets remains, though those occasions have been fewer and farther between of late. Key man Mushfiqur Rahim The wicketkeeper is now Bangladesh’s most reliable batsman and the weaknesses in the bowling attack mean large totals will be required. Prediction Should avoid the bottom spot but difficult to see anything but a group stage exit. Captain Eoin Morgan Coach Peter Moores CWC best Runners-up in 1979, 1987 and 1992 Prospects The Tri-Series showed vast improvement on the generally dismal showings in Sri Lanka but a couple of comprehensive defeats showed they still have a long way to go. They are not over-reliant on one or two individuals and every player (other than the out-of-form Ravi Bopara in his bizarre role as non-bowling all-rounder) made a contribution of sorts in Australia but their inability to “put it all together” on a consistent basis remains a major concern. The format means reaching the knockout stages is likely, though they will have to remain mentally strong if, as is very possible, they lose three of their first four games. It would be no huge surprise if they ended up scrambling their way to qualification after a defeat by one of the minnows but they should make it. Key man Jimmy Anderson Likely to be handed the ball in the key overs at the beginning and end of the inningsand must set the tone for the rest of the attack. Prediction A group stage scare followed by qualification for the knockout stages. The semis are possible if they avoid South Africa in the last eight. Captain MS Dhoni Coach Duncan Fletcher CWC best Winners in 1983 and 2011 Prospects Have had thumping series wins in Bangladesh and England and at home against Sri Lanka and West Indies, in the build-up to the tournament but were entirely out of sorts in the Tri-Series. That said, they did have two years of indifferent results before the 2011 tournament yet went on to win it. But one cannot escape the sense that in Australian conditions the India bowling attack, even one bolstered by the return of Bhuvneshwar Kumar from injury and backed up by greatly improved standards in the field, needs big totals to defend. They are capable – but Rohit Sharma’s hamstring is a concern and the rest of the order (other than Ajinkya Rahane) were hopelessly out of nick in the face of aggressive pace bowling. Key man Virat Kohli One of only four survivors from the victorious 2011 squad, the 26-year-old has to secure the big totals they will surely need. Prediction Could set a few records against the UAE in Perth but that may prove the high-point. Might not make it beyond the last eight. Captain William Porterfield Coach Phil Simmons CWC best 8th in 2007 Prospects The Ireland camp is certainly confident of ruffling a few feathers and why not, having beaten Pakistan in 2007 and, famously, England in 2011? Ed Joyce feels that “this is the best prepared team we’ve ever had going to a World Cup” and they will need to hit the ground running – they face the side most likely to pip them to a quarter-final berth, West Indies, in their opening game. The absence of Tim Murtagh from the bowling attack is a blow but they remain the strongest of the associate nations (the defeat by Scotland in Sydney notwithstanding) and they will be desperate to prove their major-nation potential, particularly against Zimbabwe, whom they could potentially face in the inaugural ICC Test Challenge in 2018. Key man Ed Joyce The 36-year-old former England player enters the tournament on the back of his best season in county cricket since 2005. Prediction So much depends on that opening game. Win it and the momentum could carry them into the knockout stages. Captain Brendon McCullum Coach Mike Hesson CWC best Semi-finals in 1975, 1979, 1992, 1999, 2007 and 2011 Prospects Will be dubbed dark horses by some but the bookies have them as third favourites, which is a far fairer assessment of a pretty complete unit. Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill provide fire and ice at the top of the order while Kane Williamson, in the form of his life, and Ross Taylor are as good a No3 and No4 as there are in the tournament. The batting order is complemented by a very handy if not particularly explosive pace attack (and the evergreen Daniel Vettori) and in McCullum they have perhaps the best captain currently in world cricket. They will fear no one and, although a 2-0 series defeat by South Africa on home soil back in October (admittedly when without a full-strength side) suggested they may come up a tad short against the very best, a comprehensive warm-up win over the same side showed their potential. Key man Brendon McCullum Finally back at the top of the order where he can make best use of his battering-ram style. Will be vital with the bat and when captaining in the field. Prediction Should make the semi-finals at least – anything less would be a huge disappointment – and they have to be considered potential winners. Captain Misbah-ul-Haq Coach Waqar Younis CWC best Winners in 1992 Prospects In October Pakistan went into the final over of an ODI run chase against Australia in Abu Dhabi needing two runs to win. That they contrived to lose two wickets and the match says everything about this side. Undoubtedly talented, utterly inconsistent, and for their fans entirely infuriating. Their only World Cup tournament win came in Australia and New Zealand in 1992 but this is not the side of Imran Khan, Wasim Akram and co. The absence of Saeed Ajmal, Mohammad Hafeez and Junaid Khan transforms the bowling attack from a huge strength to a significant weakness, and the batting is not particularly convincing either. Still, they have a puncher’s chance. Key man Misbah-ul-Haq The glue that holds this sometimes ramshackle side together. Vital as a batsman, perhaps even more so as a captain. Prediction An entertaining rollercoaster in the groups followed by a limp quarter-final exit. Captain Preston Mommsen Coach Grant Bradburn CWC best Group stage in 1999 and 2007 Prospects The goal is simply to register a first win at a World Cup – their third fixture against Afghanistan offers the best opportunity and one they will be desperate to take, having skittled the Afghan side for 63 in Abu Dhabi last month with Josh Davey scoring a half-century and taking six for 28. Before that there is the opportunity to give England a bloody nose in Christchurch and the daunting prospect of facing New Zealand in the co-hosts’ opening fixture. The Scots will almost certainly be on the receiving end of a couple of shellackings but there is county experience to call on and every reason to expect them to be just as competitive as the other associate nations. Could surprise a few people and they certainly surprised Ireland this week with a thumping victory in Sydney. Key man Preston Mommsen The South Africa-born captain was impressive in New Zealand tour games against Wellington and Canterbury last year and will hope to lead from the front. Prediction A gallant failure or two, a couple of hammerings and a tight battle with Afghanistan. Captain AB de Villiers Coach Russell Domingo CWC best Semi finals in 1992, 1999 and 2007 Prospects The world knows what to expect. Impressive performances, an effortless glide into the latter stages … and, at some point, a collective brain freeze. Allan Donald and Lance Klusener kicked it off in 1999; in 2003 there was the Duckworth-Lewis miscalculation; and even in 2011, when all the problems seemed to have been put to rest, 108 for two chasing 222 against New Zealand in the last eight became 172 all out Russell Domingo reckons the team “is mentally in a better state than it’s ever been” and they will not have a team psychologist with them. What they will have are the No1 and No2 ODI batsmen in the world in AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla, and the highest-ranked bowler at the tournament in the formidable shape of Dale Steyn. They were on the receiving end of an Aaron Finch-Steve Smith double act in November when Australia won their five-match series 4-1 but that was their only defeat in their last seven ODI series. Key man AB de Villiers The best one-day-international batsman in the world bar none. Obliterated a 44-ball 149 against West Indies last month. Prediction They should come out top in their group and, depending on the draw, vie with New Zealand for a place in the final. Captain Angelo Mathews Coach Marvan Atapattu CWC best Winners in 1996 Prospects Battered a shambling England on home soil before Christmas but had suffered a 5-0 whitewash in India prior to that series and followed it up with a 4-2 defeat in New Zealand. The problem there was the attack’s inability to restrain the New Zealand order – three of the defeats came when they allowed the Black Caps to post totals of 360 and 315 and chase down 276 with time to spare. The batting order remains too dependent on Mahela Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan, although there are of course worse players to be dependent on and they will be bolstered by another old stager, Lasith Malinga, who was absent for the New Zealand series They will be desperate to see some of the younger players announce themselves as key components for the future. Key men Lasith Malinga The Slinger and Rangana Herath The two bowlers will do their thing but they will not be able to do it alone. The support from other seamers may be even more crucial. Prediction May need to beat an improving England to avoid a nervous group stage but will surely make the knockout rounds. Captain Mohammad Tauqir Coach Aaqib Javed CWC best Group stage in 1996 Prospects Seen as the odds-on favourites for the wooden spoon but they did beat Afghanistan 3-1 in a four-match series in Dubai late last year and put in a battling, if ultimately losing, effort against Pakistan A prior to that. They also managed to lose to Nepal in 2014, though. Essentially they are a group of amateurs, with preparation somewhat disturbed by a change of captain. Khurram Khan had been in charge of the side since 2008 but Mohammad Tauqir was appointed last month “to promote and showcase Emirati leadership and playing skills on the international sporting stage,” according to the Emirates Cricket Board. They kick off with games against Zimbabwe and then Ireland – their final four matches could be a real slog if they do not get anything out of those opening fixtures. This is their first World Cup appearance since 1996. Key man Khurram Khan The 43-year-old former captain, spinning all-rounder and airline steward scored an unbeaten 132 against Afghanistan in November and was the leading scorer in qualifying. Prediction Need a solid start or it could be a whitewash. Captain Jason Holder Coach Richie Richardson CWC best Winners in 1975 and 1979 Prospects As seems to have been the case in West Indian cricket for more than a decade, turmoil surrounds the side. The 23-year-old Jason Holder was named captain in December having played only 21 games and his debut series as captain, the five-match tour in South Africa last month, resulted in four heavy defeats and one narrow victory. He replaces Dwayne Bravo, who is not in the squad despite featuring in the ICC ODI team of 2014, and the absences of Kieron Pollard and Sunil Narine mean that the Windies simply do not have their strongest squad at the tournament. That said, with the firepower of Chris Gayle, Marlon Samuels, Andre Russell and Darren Sammy to call on, no one will be taking them lightly. Key man Chris Gayle Capable of winning games on his own – may be better suited to T20s these days but still a man to empty the bars and clear the ropes. Prediction Your guess is as good as ours. Could miss out to Ireland in the groups. Could win the whole thing. But the former is more likely. Captain Elton Chigumbura Coach Dav Whatmore CWC best 5th in 1999 Prospects Not good. Have lost 13 of their last 14 ODIs and, while the five defeats against South Africa and one defeat by Australia are not necessarily cause for concern, the two defeats by Afghanistan and five by Bangladesh certainly are. Indeed, of their past 41 ODIs going back to August 2011 they have lost 34. Only two warm-up games prior to the tournament is hardly ideal preparation, even if they impressively chased down 279 to beat Sri Lanka in Lincoln on Wednesday. Any reason for optimism? Well, that one win in the 14 came against a nearly full-strength Australia in Harare in August. Their coach, Dav Whatmore, took Sri Lanka to the title in 1996 but here his focus will be on avoiding embarrassment. The game against Ireland, in particular, looks important – the team that some feel should not have Test status against the one desperate for it. Key man Brendan Taylor The one undoubtedly class batsman in the lineup. Stood up well to Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel in the Tri-Series with South Africa and Australia. Prediction Whatmore thinks they can reach the Super Eights. But no one else does. 