 Beer has contributed to the demise of many a cricketer over the years, though never quite in this manner. Allan Border, a former Australia captain, has stood down as a national selector over an apparent clash between his personal sponsor and that of Cricket Australia. The row appears to have erupted over the advertising tactics of Border's sponsor XXXX Gold, which its rival, Foster's, believe falls under the banner of ambush marketing. XXXX Gold is backing a beach cricket tournament involving teams from Australia, England and the West Indies, for which Border is the front man. That, apparently, did not sit well with Foster's, which is heavily involved with grassroots sponsorship of Australian cricket. Ambush marketing has been a major issue in Australian sport in recent years. Just two weeks ago the Holden car company sponsored a blimp to hover above the MCG during the Australian Rules grand final sponsored by Toyota. "We think ambush marketing is fairly un-Australian," said Geoff Donohoe, a spokesman for Foster's. "I will leave you to decide whether what [XXXX Gold] are doing with their current campaigns is ambush marketing. I guess Allan has [resigned as a national selector] in pursuit of his own commercial interests . . . and what he wants to do for personal gain is obviously his business." Cricket Australia is well placed to appoint a successor having gone some way to assembling a shortlist four months ago, when Border took the job. The former captain, also a selector between 1998 and 2005, returned after the former chairman Trevor Hohns resigned. Steve Rixon and Ray Bright are interested in replacing Border; the former selector Rod Marsh and Darren Lehmann of Yorkshire are not in the running. The board meets on Friday. Over the next year the selection panel of Merv Hughes, David Boon and their chairman, Andrew Hilditch, must name squads for the Ashes and World Cup, then chart a new course for the team when several veterans are expected to retire. Border is also a respected television commentator with Fox Sports and retains a position on Cricket Australia's board. 