 Right, that’s it from me. Thanks for your company. Stick around on site for all the reports and reaction and join us again on Friday for a big one – South Africa v West Indies. But for now, cheerio! 
 Pretty emphatic stuff from Sri Lanka and a very nice warm-up for what is shaping up to be a crucial game against England in Wellington on Sunday.  
 I know it’s coming. You know it’s coming. Taskin Ahmed knows it’s coming. But there’s nothing anyone can do about it. Malinga gives the No11 a fizzing yorker first up, cracks him on the boot and the umpire’s finger goes up. Taskin reviews, because he might as well, and it gives us chance to take in just at which point the ball was ripping middle stump out of the ground. About halfway up, since you ask. Updated
 Sabbir chips over the infield for a couple that take him to the verge of his first ODI half century … and a clip off the hip from a poorly-directed short ball from Malinga takes him there. An understandably understated celebration from him, which is fair enough at this stage. And from the next ball he goes, a much better short ball from the Slinger is fended off beneath his nose and edged through to the keeper. 
 45th over: Bangladesh 234-8 (Hossain 0, Sabbir 47) Man-of-the-match in waiting Dilshan continues, and he continues to keep things tight. Just a single from the over and he has figures of 8-0-35-2 to add to his 161 not out earlier. Your best batsmen play in the top 4. Bangladesh have theirs at No.6 and 7. Just plain daft. Daft. #CWC15 #SLvBAN Updated
 44th over: Bangladesh 233-8 (Hossain 0, Sabbir 46) Sri Lanka would like to finish this quickly now, particularly with Sabbir looking capable of adding a few more irksome runs. Mathews continues and to illustrate the point Sabbir clumps him through extra cover for four to take him to his highest ODI score. 
 43rd over: Bangladesh 228-8 (Hossain 0, Sabbir 41) Just before that wicket taking ball, Dilshan had spotted Mortaza giving him the charge and attempted to send one wide of the batsman. In doing so he pitched the ball somewhere near his own feet and down the leg side so far it would have hit the stumps on a wicket next to the track they’re playing on. 
 More sloppiness in the field as Lakmal this time makes a right old pig’s ear of a simple gather at point as Sabbir reverse-sweeps Dilshan. It should be a dot, but instead it’s four. It’s not going to matter in the grand scheme of things, but Dilshan will be mentally taking that off his bowling figures at the end of the match. And he’s got a wicket to add to them here. Mortaza advances, misses, and Sangakkara has the bails off before you can say “ill-advised dance down the pitch”. Updated
 42nd over: Bangladesh 222-7 (Mortaza 7, Sabbir 36) Perera returns and Mortaza Babe Ruths him down to cow corner for four. Bangladesh are going down here, but their captain wants to go down swinging. After a couple of balls Perera indicates that his back is troubling him and Mathews takes the ball for the remainder of the over. Sabbir pulls hard for a single that takes Bangladesh exactly two-thirds of the way to their target. 
 41st over: Bangladesh 216-7 (Mortaza 2, Sabbir 35) Herath returns for his final over and Sabbir this time picks out fielders. Mortaza nabs a single from the first but it’s followed by five dots. 
 41st over: Bangladesh 215-7 (Mortaza 1, Sabbir 35) The Bangladesh captain comes out with his side staring down the barrel. He gets off the mark immediately after digging out a yorker, and his batting partner Sabbir Rahman thunks a pull down to cow corner for four. Wonderful shot – he’s a talent. He picks up another couple with a little guide down to third man (where a diving stop from Herath brings to mind a pillow being pushed down the stairs). 
 Rahim edges a Lakmal full toss for four, but an edge from the next finds a more final destination. He tries to create room by stepping to leg, but can only deflect the ball onto his stumps. Updated
 40th over: Bangladesh 204-6 (Rahim 32, Sabbir 29) The final over of the Powerplay and Lasith Malinga will bowl it. Rahim sees out two full ones then pushes into the leg side for a single that takes Bangladesh to their 200. Sabbir guides an open-faced push very fine to the third man boundary for four, much to Malinga’s chagrin. But it’s a not-too-shabby five from the over for the bowler. Bangladesh will need to score 129 from the final 10 overs to win this. Any takers? 
 39th over: Bangladesh 199-6 (Rahim 31, Sabbir 25) A very fine over from Lakmal, with some well directed short stuff causing a few problems. Just two runs from it. 
 38th over: Bangladesh 197-6 (Rahim 30, Sabbir 24) “Twitter is the place I go to have fun,” says Russell Arnold on commentary. “When I’m bored it’s the place to go.” Sheesh, come on Russell. Read a book. Malinga sends down two dots at Sabbir, then runs one off the blade and picks up two to third man. They’re keeping their powder pretty dry out there at the moment. Ireland scored 108 from their last 11 overs against UAE on Wednesday. But they had more wickets in hand. And they had Kevin O’Brien. And they were facing UAE. 
 37th over: Bangladesh 193-6 (Rahim 29, Sabbir 21) The official attendance at the MCG is 30,012, which as TMS points out is around 2,000 people more than a jam-packed Lord’s. Good effort. Lakmal returns for his sixth over and again the batsmen struggle to pick up anything more than singles. Seven from the over. 
 36th over: Bangladesh 186-6 (Rahim 28, Sabbir 16) Powerplay time, so Malinga comes back into the attack. The previously serene Sabbir is suddenly rather more ruffled. The batsmen work the singles, but never look like finding the rope. Four from the over. 
 35th over: Bangladesh 182-6 (Rahim 26, Sabbir 14) Sabbir looks a fine player to be coming in at No8 – from the last ball of another tourniquet-tight Herath over he drives beautifully through the covers for four, the sort of shot to put some of his colleagues higher up the order to shame. 
 34th over: Bangladesh 176-6 (Rahim 25, Sabbir 9) Dilshan pushes one down the leg side for a wide, but with the best part of 160 still to score this is a forlorn chase now from Bangladesh. They work a couple of singles and the required rate edges surreptitiously towards 10 an over. 
 33rd over: Bangladesh 171-6 (Rahim 23, Sabbir 7) Herath returns. Sabbir blocks, blocks and blocks again, then tickles to fine leg for a couple. And he ends the over with a really-rather-lovely sweep shot for four. 
 32nd over: Bangladesh 165-6 (Rahim 23, Sabbir 1)  With Shakib presumably goes any chance Bangladesh had of getting remotely close to this target. 
 DROPPED! SIX! Rahim skips down the track to Dilshan and looks to plant him in the stands at long on. He picks out Malinga on the boundary, who should pouch the catch but instead spills it over the rope. That was ugly, but in keeping with an awful lot of the fielding we’ve seen in this game. He gets the chance to make amends later in the over … and this time he takes the catch, Shakib holing out. 
 31st over: Bangladesh 157-5 (Rahim 16, Shakib 46) Shakib gives Mathews the charge this time and top-edges a big swipe wide of the keeper for four. And he follows that up with a cracking cut that beats Herath to the rope (although you get the sense that the list of things that can beat Herath to the rope includes tortoises, glaciers and a surprising number of inanimate objects). It’s another good over for Bangladesh, 12 from it. 
 30th over: Bangladesh 145-5 (Rahim 15, Shakib 35) There’s a definite eagerness to get on with things now from Bangladesh and particularly Shakib, but Dilshan is just too canny. That is until the last, which is a rank half-tracker pulled gratefully away by Rahim for four. 
 29th over: Bangladesh 138-5 (Rahim 10, Shakib 34) SIX! Herath returns and Shakib busts the shackles with a sledgehammer – a big lofted drive over long on that just beats the diving Chandimal on the rope. And a couple of balls later he skips down the track again and drives thumpingly through the off side this time for four more. And he finishes the over with a flail through the covers for another boundary. He scored 18 of the first 43 balls of his innings, but 16 of the last five. 
 28th over: Bangladesh 122-5 (Rahim 10, Shakib 18) Dilshan zips through another over at double-quick speed, helped by the fact that the ball isn’t really leaving the square. A couple of singles is all the batsmen can muster. 
 27th over: Bangladesh 120-5 (Rahim 9, Shakib 17) Shakib’s feet seem to be glued to the crease. It should provide Malinga with an lbw opportunity but Shakib’s hand-eye co-ordination is good enough to keep out a couple of attempted yorkers, with or without foot movement. After four dots, he finally manages to work one to backward square leg. Rahim, looking far happier, flicks behind square from the last to pinch the strike. 
 25th over: Bangladesh 115-5 (Rahim 7, Shakib 14) Malinga returns. That’s bad news for Shakib, who is really struggling to find his touch. He has a big slash-and-miss from the penultimate ball of the over but at least does put bat on ball from the last for a single. He crawls on to 14 from 30 balls. 
 24th over: Bangladesh 113-5 (Rahim 6, Shakib 13) Mathews mixes things up – Dilshan comes into the attack for the first time. He rips one onto Shakib’s edge – it’s a cracking ball – but his only reward is to watch the thing pop through the vacant slip region and away for two. A couple of balls later he’s a whisker away from clean bowling Shakib with one that goes straight on. Lovely bowling. 
 23rd over: Bangladesh 110-5 (Rahim 5, Shakib 11) Perera looks to pepper Shakib with some short stuff, but he copes with it unfussily. Five added to the tally. 
 22nd over: Bangladesh 105-5 (Rahim 3, Shakib 7) Herath continues, as well he might. Rahim works him to leg for a couple and there’s a couple of singles too. “Just saw the highlights of the Scotland - Afghanistan game, boy, did you guys get the fuzzy end of that lollipop!” writes Robert Wilson. “But your match is important too. How far do we think Sri Lanka will go? You’d never write them off but they’re weirdly hard to gauge and this game is only increasing the mystery. Is it some kind of intentional fog-of-war gambit? And then in the later stages, they peel off the scrofulous peasant cloaks and out come the swords and shields?” They’re potential semi-finalists for me, though it depends on the quarter-final lineup. I can’t see them beating New Zealand or Australia, because the bowling aside from Herath and Malinga just isn’t strong enough. 
 21st over: Bangladesh 101-5 (Rahim 1, Shakib 6) Mushfiqur Rahim comes to the crease. He’s been in brilliant form over the past 18 months or so. But this is a pretty dismal situation for Bangladesh. 