The Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump, who has previously accused the Federal Reserve of keeping interest rates low to help Barack Obama, said on Monday that the US central bank had created a “false economy” and that interest rates should change. His Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, seized on the remarks as proof that Trump is not presidential. “They’re keeping the rates down so that everything else doesn’t go down,” Trump said in response to a reporter’s request to address a potential rate hike by the Federal Reserve in September. “We have a very false economy,” he said. “At some point the rates are going to have to change,” Trump, who was campaigning in Ohio on Monday, added. “The only thing that is strong is the artificial stock market.” His remarks did not sit well with Clinton. While speaking to reporters on her campaign plane, Clinton implied that Trump’s comments show he is not ready to be president.  “You should not be commenting on Fed actions when you are either running for president or you are president,” she said. “Words have consequences. Words move markets. Words can be misinterpreted.” The Fed chair, Janet Yellen, said last month that the US central bank was getting closer to raising interest rates, possibly as early as September, saying that the Fed sees the economy as close to meeting its goals of maximum employment and stable prices. The Fed raised interest rates last December for the first time in nearly a decade, and at that time projected four more hikes in 2016. The Fed later scaled back that projection to two rate hikes this year in the wake of a slowdown in global growth and continued financial market volatility.  The Fed is set to meet in September, November and December this year. Most economists expect that the Fed will hike interest rates just once before the end of 2016 and that it will come in December after the US presidential elections.  According to the Atlanta Fed president, Dennis Lockhart, elections do not come up during policy-setting meetings.  “We sit around the table for a day and a half. We talk about the state of the economy, we talk about the outlook for the economy, we talk about how close we are to our mandated objectives. Many of us – the Fed presidents – give some color from our regions from the conversations we have had with business leaders and community leaders and so forth, and really talk about what the best decision is that we can make at this meeting for the long run for the economy. And that’s it,” he said in May. “Rarely does anyone bring up a political subject. It’s not part of how we conduct ourselves in this meeting.” Prior to winning the Republican nomination, Trump had called Yellen’s tenure “highly political” and said the Fed should raise interest rates but would not do so for “political reasons”. The Fed has been a target of some conservative critics in the US Congress, who say the bank risked sparking inflation with its easy monetary policies in response to the global financial crisis. Fed officials say their independence is critical to making sound policy decisions. The Richmond Fed president, Jeffrey Lacker, and Kansas City Fed president, Esther George, are scheduled to defend the Fed’s policies before the US Congress on Wednesday.  Reuters contributed to this report. 