As Gerry Reilly moves from one of his 50-foot mushroom farm units to another, he constantly checks the currency tracker xe.com to see if the pound is still falling. Since the Brexit vote in June and sterling’s plunge against the euro, the Irish mushroom industry has taken a hammering.  It has lost €7m (£6m) out of the average €120m that mushrooms generate for Irish producers every year. Six farmers out of 60 have already gone out of business. In between checking the exchange rates and picking up the snowy white mushrooms growing inside a bed of animal manure and thick black Irish peat, Reilly predicts that things will get worse before they get better for the industry. “Don’t be surprised if you hear about another producer going out of business in the coming weeks. I’m hearing bad things in a few places across the country,” he says gloomily. Reilly points out that 95% of all Irish mushrooms are sold to the British market with most of them ending up on the shelves of Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Asda and other UK supermarkets. “Brexit has had a disastrous effect on the Irish mushroom industry. Britain and particularly England is our market, there is really no other. So if the pound falls and our revenue collapses then it will drive more of us out of the industry.” He points to a punnet of the white, uniformly shaped mushrooms. “I think we captured the British market because the consumers on the other side of the Irish Sea like what we grow. It’s a bit like Irish beef – Ireland has a reputation for its food being clean, green and fresh. The last thing we need is for uncertainty and devaluation of the pound endangering this massively successful product,” Reilly says. Every day 50 tonnes of Irish mushrooms are shipped across the Irish Sea to the big supermarket chains in Britain. Reilly’s farm is set on four acres, seven miles beyond the town of Athlone on the edge of Ireland’s peat bog land in the Irish midlands. He employs 70 workers, all of whom are from Latvia, inside 16 giant units. Like all other producers across the Republic, Reilly’s mushrooms are sold via contracts renewed at the beginning of each year. When the contracts for this year were signed before Brexit it was at 72 pence to the euro. Post-Brexit they were trading at 90 pence to the euro. “Our main worry would be that Polish farms might start to break into the British market,” say Reilly. “But we have an advantage on them because it’s going to take them two to three days to get their product across Europe to the UK. We can guarantee that these mushrooms are in British supermarkets tomorrow morning.” Inside one of the cylinder-shaped mushroom production units, which are painted green to blend into the lush Irish countryside, Reilly makes a suggestion to help “create a bridge” for farmers under pressure. “The government could do much more, and that means, for example, they reduce PRSI tax [national insurance] on employers like me and take our tax bill down to generate enough spare cash for mushroom farmers to survive this dip in revenue due to the pound,” he says. The Irish state’s food agency admits that the weakness of sterling against the euro created by Brexit has posed significant challenges to the mushroom industry. A spokesman for the Irish food board, Bord Bia, said: “While the industry has been proactive taking certain measures to negate some of the currency impact, increased returns from the marketplace are seen as crucial to underpin the production base in the current volatile currency environment.  “Since the June referendum result Bord Bia has listened to the concerns of food and drink exporters, and worked closely with them, focusing especially on those companies most exposed to the weakness of sterling.  “We have tailored supports around managing currency fluctuations and negotiating strategies in the short term and last week we launched a market intensification programme to support them with consumer research, new product development, participation at trade fairs and consumer events.  “In addition we are providing additional resources to deepen our market engagement in the UK and we are working with retailers through the current difficulties, demonstrating our loyalty to our customers who are keen to maintain business relationships.” During the UK referendum campaign on Europe the remain side claimed that food prices would rise if the electorate opted for Brexit.Reilly believes that this will not only happen but will in the end be the salvation of the Irish mushroom industry. “The first jobs that have gone won’t be replaced by Irish farms but taken by European markets because they are so big now it’s hard for another Irish farm to pick up the slack in order to fill the gap. My own business could be taken overnight if I am not careful. “But I have been in mushroom farming since the 1980s. I work off one fundamental principle, I believe that the English will pay the higher price for the mushrooms, because these are the ones they want. The Irish product. Anyway, what’s the alternative? They still love the Irish mushroom … we hope,” Reilly adds. 