Hundreds of jobs are at risk at one of Britain’s biggest high street retailers, Monsoon Accessorize, after it decided to close its largest shops. The retailer has called time on having the Monsoon and Accessorize brands in a single shop and will close the dual outlets across the country as their leases expire over the next five years. A total of 141 stores will be affected. The company will look to open separate Monsoon and Accessorize shops in the areas with joint outlets, but job losses are possible. Monsoon Accessorize employs 5,500 people across the UK and has more than 300 shops. Monsoon, however, the women’s fashion chain, is struggling in the face of fierce competition on the high street. A source close to the company said the crossover between Monsoon and Accessorize customers was “actually lower than you would think”. Monsoon is thought to attract slightly older shoppers than Accessorize, which mostly sells jewellery. The restructuring is part of a wide-ranging strategic overhaul led by the new chief executive, Paul Allen. It is a reversal of the strategy pursued under the former boss John Browett, who previously ran Dixons and Apple’s retail business and now runs the homeware group Dunelm. Browett expanded the number of joint Monsoon and Accessorize stores, but the company’s bosses now believe this was a mistake. Browett stepped down as Monsoon Accessorize’s boss early last year. He was replaced by Allen, the former boss of the upmarket womenswear brand Jacques Vert, on an interim basis before the appointment was made permanent in January. There have been rumours that Monsoon Accessorize was considering a company voluntary arrangement, an insolvency procedure that allows a retailer to walk away from its rental agreements and close stores quickly. Company sources, however, said this was “nonsense” given its financial strength. Monsoon Acccesorize is owned by the tycoon Peter Simon, who started Monsoon in the 1970s with a market stall on Portobello Road. The first Accessorize shop opened in 1984 after Monsoon started to sell a small collection of fashion accessories which proved popular.  Simon and his family are now worth more than £500m, but the latest financial results for the parent company reveal pressure on the high street retailer. Drillgreat Limited suffered a 9% drop in sales to £465m in the year to the end of August 2015, including a 5% drop in like-for-like sales in the UK, and racked up a pre-tax loss of £155m. Allen said in the accounts that Monsoon Accessorize had a disappointing year, describing Monsoon’s performance as poor as it was hindered by unseasonable weather and heavy discounting by its high street rivals. He said the company had launched a “far-reaching strategic reorganisation programme to address the principal issues which are depressing profitability”. He said: “These actions include refocusing the way the group’s three brands – Accessorize, Monsoon Ladies and Monsoon Children – are operated in the UK, with different strategies to address their distinct core customer propositions, continuing to reshape the UK property portfolio, and reshaping the international business for the future.” The company has also promoted Nikki Hamwee to the role of Monsoon Ladies brand director, focusing the international business on Europe and the Middle East - with store closures in other parts of the world - and it has agreed deals with Debenhams, House of Fraser and Amazon to sell Monsoon clothing. Monsoon Accessorize declined to comment on the plan to close the joint stores or the number of jobs that could be affected. 