Investors from the world’s three largest economies are increasingly sceptical about doing deals in the UK due to uncertainty over Brexit, according to a report from one of the world’s top accounting firms. The UK dropped out of the top five global destinations for mergers and acquisitions for the first time in the seven-year history of the EY Global Capital Confidence Barometer survey. Sentiment among investors in China, the US and Japan – the top three economies in the world – showed the biggest downturns, due to fears Britain will no longer offer a “gateway into Europe”, the report said. Around 82% of Japanese respondents declared themselves less confident about investing due to Brexit-related turmoil, while 56% of those from the US and 53% from China agreed. “Brexit may not have created the initial turmoil some feared but investment uncertainty is clouding the UK’s longer-term economic prospects,” said Steve Ivermee, a managing partner at EY. He said the survey “highlights the size of the government’s task as it starts to reposition the UK … For businesses, reassuring overseas investors and setting out clear trade priorities with favoured nations is a priority.” The UK fell to seventh in the list of the most attractive countries to pursue corporate deals, above India and below Japan, despite the weakness of sterling making British assets cheaper for foreign firms. The last EY survey, released before the EU referendum in May, put the UK second only to the US as a country in which to pursue takeovers and mergers. Investors in India, Russia and Europe still favour the UK, the report said, while EY said the UK’s fundamentally strong economy meant companies “don’t look ready to run for the exit … Nevertheless, smaller inflows into new and existing operations are concerning in the context of falling domestic investment and the UK’s negative current account,” said Ivermee. Brexit is also proving a worry for domestic businesses, the survey found. While 87% of those surveyed see the UK economy as stable, around 92% expect Britain’s exit from the EU to affect their ability to hire skilled people. 