The value of Britain’s top 100 companies came close to an all-time closing high on Tuesday as the stock market benefited from a plunge in the value of sterling. The FTSE 100 closed at 7,074.34, taking it closer to the 7,104 record reached in April 2015. Shortly before closing, the FTSE came within one point of the all-time intra-day high of 7,122 but the index fell away during the closing auction. The FTSE 250 index of more domestically focused medium-sized firms also received a boost, climbing 0.8% to an all-time closing high of 18,342. Analysts said the market had reacted strongly to concerns that Theresa May would support quitting the European Union with only a rudimentary trade deal that would cost the UK growth and jobs. A speech by the prime minister at the weekend and her comments on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Tuesday morning appeared to show that the government would leave the EU’s tariff-free customs union after prioritising curbs on immigration. The likelihood of a so-called hard Brexit sent the pound plummeting to a fresh 31-year low, just above $1.27. Listed companies that earn the bulk of their revenues in dollars, including BP and Shell, mining companies Anglo American and BHP Billiton, as well as Europe’s largest bank, HSBC, are expected to see annual profits increase after the currency shift, making their shares more attractive. Expectations that the UK will be a drag on global growth, limiting the scope for the US central bank to raise interest rates, has also encouraged investors to suspend plans to invest in government bonds in favour of stocks and shares, lifting London and other major exchanges. Kathleen Brooks, research director at the City Index spread-betting firm, said a recovery in sterling was unlikely over the next few months. “The latest news from the Conservative party conference is that Theresa May is playing hardball with the City and is failing to guarantee a special status post-Brexit for the UK’s financial services sector. While politics is king, this is stymieing any chance of a pound recovery,” she said. Brooks also said Philip Hammond’s warning that Britain’s economy was heading for a “rollercoaster” ride over the coming years had compounded the sterling sell-off.  She said the pound could fall to $1.25, or even $1.20. The all-time low from March 1985 is $1.05 to the pound.  John Wraith, head of UK rates strategy at UBS, was equally pessimistic about a recovery of the pound, warning that it could suffer a fate similar to that during the financial crisis.  “When the global financial crisis entered its acute phase, sterling resumed its rapid decline, falling a further 20% by the end of 2008. Although different in its underlying causes, a similar pattern of decline, pause and fresh falls may be unfolding now,” he said. 