The John Lewis Partnership has scaled back expansion plans at its Waitrose supermarket chain and said staff numbers would fall after reporting a sharp drop in first-half profit. Pre-tax profit for the partnership for the six months to the end of July fell 14.7% to £81.9m, excluding exceptional property items. Operating profit dropped 58.3% to £113.7m as the group wrote down £25m relating to the value of property acquired to develop seven Waitrose supermarkets that it no longer plans to open. Profits slid at the group’s department stores and supermarkets as they were forced to adapt to a rapid shift toward online shopping. Sales rose 3.1% but profit was held back by price competition, pay increases, IT costs and a new distribution network that includes a £150m extension to the group’s Milton Keynes depot.  Sir Charlie Mayfield, the employee-owned partnership’s chairman, said John Lewis had felt little effect from the vote to leave the EU, but that uncertainty created by the referendum result would linger. One immediate impact of the Brexit vote was that the group’s pension deficit soared by £512m to £1.44bn in the first half, because of falling yields on bonds used to fund the scheme. Mayfield said: “Our commitment to competitive pricing, excellent service, increasing pay and investing for the long term have held back profits. We expect the trading pressures to continue through this year and next.  “The EU referendum result … has had little quantifiable impact on sales so far. Instead there are far-reaching changes taking place in society, in retail and in the workplace that have much greater implications.” He said John Lewis had increased pay for its lowest-paid partners, as its workers are called, by £33m – £30m more than was required by the introduction of the “national living wage”. He said the group wanted to keep average partner earnings well above the new minimum wage for over-25s, but that there would be a steady reduction in staff numbers from now on.. Rob Collins, the managing director of Waitrose who took over from Mark Price this year, plans to open just five Little Waitrose convenience stores over the next six months and two main supermarkets, and plough money into improving existing stores instead. He wants to open more in-store eateries such as bakeries, wine bars and sushi stands to drive up underlying sales at existing stores. Collins expects to add bakeries in at least 200 more large stores over the next three years.  