EasyJet is set for its first drop in annual profit since 2009 in a year blighted by multiple terrorist attacks, industrial action and a sharp fall in the value of the pound. In a trading update, the budget airline said it expected pre-tax profits to be in the range of £490m to £495m for the 12 months to 30 September, compared with £686m the previous year, a decline of about 28%. Shares in the company closed down almost 7% at 933.5p, making easyJet the biggest faller on the FTSE 100. Carolyn McCall, the easyJet chief executive, said the company had faced a series of extraordinary events this year, but she remained confident in the business. “The current environment is tough for all airlines, but history shows that at times like this, the strongest airlines become stronger,” she said.  “That is why we will continue to invest for the long-term success of the business, establishing even stronger market positions, delivering excellent customer service and establishing new revenue opportunities for the future.” The company said a combination of “major external shock events” would cost the company at least £125m, while currency movements would cost it £90m, largely because of the sharp fall in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote on 23 June. People were less willing to fly in the immediate aftermath of attacks in Belgium and France, and air traffic control strikes led to disruption and cancelled flights. EasyJet reports in pounds, but the airline buys fuel in dollars and pays air traffic costs and landing charges on its many European routes in euros. In the trading update before its full-year results, easyJet said passenger numbers for the final quarter of its financial year were a record 22 million. Revenue per seat decreased by 8.7% over the three months, compared with the same period a year earlier. Cost per seat, including fuel, is expected to fall by 4.6%. McCall said: “EasyJet continues to attract record numbers of passengers due to its wide range of destinations, convenient flight times and value-for-money fares. We have been disproportionately affected by extraordinary events this year but our excellent network, cost control and revenue initiatives, and our strong balance sheet underpin our confidence in the business.” The airline said it would proceed with its strategy of building leading positions at important airports in key summer beach and European city destinations. EasyJet has sold about 45% of seats available in the current first quarter, in line with the previous year. Revenue per seat continues to decline at about the same rate as in the fourth quarter. George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said easyJet was facing challenging times on a number of fronts and was one of the FTSE 100’s worst performers since the EU referendum. “The group says weaker sterling is making going abroad less affordable for the average Brit, while the rising threat of terrorism is putting customers off too. These are industry-wide factors,” he said.  “However, the competition is hotting up too. Other airlines are looking covetously at easyJet’s market share, with pressure coming from the budget players Wizz and Ryanair, and ‘premium economy’ offerings like Vueling.” 