Are Britain’s volume housebuilders too big and too successful? The standard narrative in the UK is that we don’t build enough houses, and that the likes of Persimmon, Barratt Homes and Taylor Wimpey need to knock out hundreds of thousands more a year if we’re ever going to cap runaway price inflation and house our growing population. But Britain’s big housebuilders are far from failing. Persimmon (the biggest player in the market) has issued bumper figures, with completions up 6%, profits up 29% and sales barely affected, if at all, by Brexit. Its share price has recovered to within a whisker of its pre-referendum high.  If Persimmon were American, it would be that vast country’s fourth biggest home builder. Persimmon is just under half the size of the biggest in the US, DR Horton, but its completions this year put it above America’s fourth biggest builder, NVR.  The problem with housebuilding in the UK lies not in the majors but in the minors. In 1988, according to the Home Builders Federation, there were 12,000 small and medium-sized residential housebuilding firms in Britain, defined as completing one to 100 homes a year. The number today? Fewer than 2,500.  America builds far more homes because it has thriving mid-size building firms that have all but disappeared in Britain.  Britain’s former Mittelstand of mid-size housing firms have been destroyed by two forces: finance and planning. Reforms to the planning process in the early 1990s made the task of obtaining building permission more risky, and more expensive. Builders have always griped about the bureaucracy around obtaining planning permission, but the reality is that an application can cost tens of thousands of pounds, be hugely time-consuming, and ultimately unsuccessful. It’s a risk that few small enterprises can afford to take.  The second issue is development finance. Loans to building firms dried up completely during the credit crunch. Even the majors survived only by painful cash-calls to shareholders. Barratt Homes went cap in hand to the market for £720m in 2009, shortly after Taylor Wimpey asked for £533m to repair its balance sheet. Smaller builders just went to the wall.  Since then, money has dribbled back, but only slowly. It says something about how abysmal bank lending still is when Funding Circle, a peer-to-peer lender, has become one of the biggest providers of loans to small builders.  Since Funding Circle launched property finance loans in 2014, its loans have helped small property developers to build approximately 2,200 homes across the country. Such loans are welcome, but we can’t rely on peer-to-peer as the whole answer. There are mutterings about new government-backed development finance packages in the offing, but precious little evidence so far. Theresa May spoke of the need to get Britain building again just before entering No 10. Jeremy Corbyn and Owen Smith are engaged in a bidding war as to who can promise the most new homes. What none of them are saying in detail is which companies are going to build these new housing estates, how they are going to be financed, and how they are going to unlock the blockages in the planning system.  Unfortunately there is an innate tendency to corporatism in planning, as city councils prefer dealing with the volume builders. When they have a site for 500 homes to be allocated, it will be one of the giants who picks up the deal. Some of the smaller builders compare the current situation to Tesco v the independent shops – and it’s Tesco that is still winning.  Yet those rows of terraces that define the Victorian and Edwardian expansion of Britain’s cities were not built by Barratt or Persimmon. Usually they were built to a plan but then sub-contracted to large numbers of small and artisan builders. To get Britain building again, we need not just the help of the volume builders – but a new strategy to revive the all but forgotten small building firm as well.  The price tag on Zara’s clothes is a useful barometer of the currency markets. Shoppers will be familiar with the store’s practice of listing prices in both sterling and euros, and for those with a knowledge of current exchange rates, it’s obvious the pricing has gone awry. If this writer were 30 years younger and could slip into a pair of skinny jeans, the Zara store in London would charge £29.99, equal to €34.92. The same item in Zara Paris or Madrid is €39.95. In other word’s the world’s biggest clothes retailer is charging, in euro terms, around 15% more than it charges in sterling.  These price differentials have not been lost on wealthier cross-border shoppers (aka Chinese tourists). The latest evidence comes from Swiss watch makers, who are enjoying a boom in popularity in the UK, with Britain suddenly regarded as the world’s bargain basement for luxury goods.  Enjoy it while it lasts. What were seeing is a giant clearance sale, and the bargains will largely disappear once we restock our shelves with new imports, and are invoiced, rather painfully, in euros or dollars.  