Financial shares are rallying strongly after the Bank of Japan introduced further stimulus measures to boost its flagging economy. Barclays is the biggest riser in the leading index, up 5.5p at 171.95p. It has also been helped by analysts at HSBC moving their recommendation from hold to buy and raising their target price from 150p to 190p. They said that selling Barclays’ unwanted assets would add value to the business. Elswhere Lloyds Banking Group has been lifted 0.96p to 57.4p while HSBC itself is 7.2p higher at 590.6p. Rebecca O’Keeffe, head of investment at Interactive Investor, said:  European markets are following Asia higher - with banks and financial companies leading the charge after the Bank of Japan surprised the market. With the market divided on whether the Bank of Japan would increase stimulus or cut rates further, Governor Kuroda decided to think outside the box and scrapped their set monetary base goal with the intent of targeting yields of various maturities, thereby creating a steeper yield curve.  The shape of the yield curve has, in the past, been a very clear predictor of future economic activity. A flat yield curve gives no incentive for banks to lend, and typically presages an imminent economic slowdown. A steeper yield curve provides the motivation for banks to encourage customers to borrow, and is typically associated with a strengthening economy. Given that financial companies borrow short and lend long, today’s announcement by the Bank of Japan has provided the rocket fuel for Japanese banks to rally strongly. The major question is how effective this policy will be. But Royal Bank of Scotland is missing out, down 1.4p to 182.3p after Santander pulled out of talks to buy 315 branches the bank must spin off.  Overall the FTSE 100 is now up 31.31 points at 6862.10, but the day is likely to be volatile ahead of this evening’s US Federal Reserve meeting. The central bank is not expected to raise interest rates, but it cannot entirely be ruled out. Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK, said: Markets are expecting a hike sometime in the next few months, just not today, which suggests that any move by the Federal Reserve Open Markets Committee today would catch the markets completely unprepared. This would have the potential to be a rather risky option for the Fed, despite significant enthusiasm from several members of the committee to go now, which means if the Fed were to move today, Janet Yellen’s press conference would then be an exercise in expectations management, though this would be equally true if they hold rate, as is widely expected, though it would be an easier task to manage. Housebuilders are higher, continuing to benefit from a note this week from UBS, which said the UK housing market had been more resilient than expected after the Brexit vote. Persimmon has put on 48p to £18.14 while Barratt Developments is 9.8p better at 488.5p. Mining shares were also better on hopes of stability in the Chinese economy and a boost from the Japanese stimulus move. Anglo American has added 25.6p to 883.2p while Rio Tinto has risen 54.5p to 2414.5p. Elsewhere information provider RELX is the biggest loser in the FTSE 100, down 17p at £14.51 as analysts at Macquarie issued an underperform rating. They said the company would find it difficult to improve operating performance further and it was time for a transformational deal. Among the mid-caps, online grocer Ocado is down 0.7p at 268.1p as Deutsche Bank cut from hold to sell. It said: While the share has fallen 17% post the third quarter, we continue to have 18% downside to our unchanged 220p target price. On more than 80 times 2016 estimated enterprise value/EBIT, Ocado continues to look expensive relative to Amazon on 72 times. 