Viagogo is the brainchild of American tech guru Eric Baker, 43, who also co-founded ticketing website StubHub before selling it to eBay for $310m in a deal believed to have made him more than $30m. Viagogo has grown rapidly, exploiting huge demand for live events by providing a marketplace for people to resell tickets – often at a hefty mark-up – and taking a commission. A fundraising effort in 2009 valued the company at $300m but it is believed to have grown significantly since. However, since it moved from the UK to Switzerland in 2012 its financial accounts are private. Its investors include tennis power couple Steffi Graf and Andre Agassi, Bernard Arnault, chief executive of luxury brand LVMH, and financier Jacob Rothschild. It also secured investment from brothers Saul and Robin Klein, the latter of whom is on the board of Tech City UK, an initiative set up by former British prime minister David Cameron. While Viagogo advertises some tickets at face value or below, it has also become notorious for wildly inflated prices for the hottest events. Two tickets for this December’s El Clasico, the grudge football match between Real Madrid and Barcelona, are currently listed for £196,155.94. If tickets sell at that price then Viagogo’s “booking fee”would top £40,000. It would also take a commission from the seller, typically about 15% of the ticket price. The website says this fee is “what allows us to provide you with our great service”. Social media sites, however, are littered with angry customers complaining that they had been refused entry or had difficulty getting their money back. Viagogo may advertise tickets with a huge price tag, but it prefers to keep a low profile about its own operations. While the firm is now technically based in Geneva, much of Viagogo’s business is administered from an office in Cannon Street in London, where dozens of staff field calls from customers. When the Guardian visited the office, Viagogo’s name did not appear on the foyer information board listing the building’s tenants.  So far, sites such as Viagogo have avoided a legal crackdown, although regulators are understood to be considering a full-blown investigations into secondary ticketing. 