Shares in Sports Direct have fallen by more than 5% after its joint house broker cut full-year profit expectations for the beleaguered retailer by a fifth. Goldman Sachs, which in May recommended investors sell Sports Direct’s stock for the first time in four years, said it had now cut its profit forecast after the company’s warning this month about higher operating costs. Goldman Sachs also said it now believed the group’s profits would be lower after Sports Direct said it would be marking down the value of its property and other assets this year by £120m, compared with the £95m the broker had expected. Shares in Sports Direct have fallen by about 17% since 6 September when the company released a critical report by its own lawyers in which it identified “serious shortcomings” in working practices at the group’s main warehouse. That was followed by a bad-tempered annual general meeting where Sports Direct’s board was criticised for holding on to chairman Keith Hellawell despite the majority of independent shareholders voting to boot him out. The company is preparing to hold a new vote where Ashley will use his 55% stake to override other investors’ concerns.  The company also warned at the AGM that it now expected that profits would be just £300m in the year to April 2017, £20m less than City analysts were predicting, and well below the £380m profits earned this year. The company said profits margins would shrink, costs would rise and it would spend more on buying property. Sports Direct has said it expects to increase sales by 9% in the year to April 2017 as it invests more in new stores and improving the look of existing outlets to boost relations with major brands such as Nike and Adidas, whom Ashley said were tired of seeing their product displayed in a “pile-it-high sell-it-cheap” style. At its annual shareholder meeting Sports Direct said it expected to spend more than £300m a year on property acquisitions – controversially led by Michael Murray, the boyfriend of Ashley’s daughter and head of Sports Direct’s property team. In a statement to the stock exchange in January, the company said Murray was paid no salary and was not a director of any Sports Direct company. It said he would be paid based on “creating value”, although it did not explain how the added value was calculated. This week the head of the Commons business, innovation and skills (BIS) select committee, Iain Wright MP, urged Ashley to stop using the Transline employment agency at the Shirebrook depot. In a letter to Ashley, Wright said: “We ask you to think seriously about continuing to use Transline, a company that treats their workers and conducts its business in a way that is inconsistent with your own aspirations for Sports Direct to be on a par with the likes of Selfridges and John Lewis.” 