What a shame, Tesco and Unilever have declared peace just as the great Marmite bust-up was getting exciting. In round two, Tesco’s chief executive, Dave Lewis, could have pointed out that Unilever has grown fat on profit margins of 14.9% and contrasted his old employer’s easy life with his own struggle to restore the supermarket chain’s margins to even 3%. Or he could have alleged that Unilever’s strong-arm tactics were not simply currency-inspired but flowed from the weaker rate of sales growth revealed on Thursday in Unilever’s third-quarter trading update. Or he could have argued that the company was trying to milk the great British shopper to fund expansion in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America. Now will we be denied such entertainment. Mutual self-interest was always likely to prevail but Lewis’s determination to fight to the point where stocks of Marmite and other Unilever goods ran low is admirable. After sterling’s fall, there will many companies trying to force through unmerited price increases under the cover of Brexit. It’s impossible to know how guilty Unilever was on that score. It would be silly to deny the company’s right to try to pass on some of the higher costs from commodities and dollar- and euro-denominated packaging, but an alleged 10% across-the-board price hike did indeed look too much, too soon. Lewis worked at Unilever for 27 years and will have a keen sense of when his former colleagues have overplayed their hand. From a tactical point of view, he played a blinder in positioning Tesco as stout defender of UK consumers’ interests. It makes a welcome change after his predecessors at the grocer spent a decade bleeding UK shoppers to fund their wasteful foreign adventures in the US, China and eastern Europe. Who won the Marmite scrap? We’ll never be told the details of the settlement, but one suspects Tesco had the better of the skirmish because Unilever, a company that can come across as holier-than-thou at times, was ill-prepared for a dirty public fight. In the long run, though, Unilever’s profit margins will remain considerably plumper than Tesco’s. Dad controls 39% of the shares, so James Murdoch’s job as chairman of Sky is safe. Yet 50.6% of outside shareholders want him out, a result more embarrassing than the satellite broadcaster (and Murdoch Jr) would have expected.  Naturally, the company’s reaction was to blame the dissenters for being box-ticking ignoramuses. Sky, taking a well-trodden path, thinks US investors rely too heavily on proxy advisory agencies like ISS, which is wedded to the idea that a chairman should be independent, which Murdoch obviously isn’t. It promises to “engage” with the shareholders directly – shorthand for telling them why they are wrong. Such a bull-headed reaction was predictable; and, yes, it would be a good thing if shareholders did not outsource their thinking to third parties. But Sky should look in the mirror. When contemplating a new chairman in January, the company didn’t bother to consult outside shareholders and instead presented the return of Murdoch as a done deal. Given the history – the failed bid by News Corp (now 21st Century Fox) in 2011 and the phone-hacking scandal at News International that contributed to Murdoch’s resignation from Sky – the lack of consultation was arrogant. It is nice to know Sky is now in a mood to talk. But the right moment to do so was before the appointment was signed off. If Sky had done so, it might have converted a majority of independent shareholders to its way of thinking. The board brought the embarrassment on itself. Sir Philip Green was warned often enough that his knighthood would be at risk if he did not make good on his promise to “sort” the deficit in the BHS pension fund. Six months have passed since the chain collapsed so he can hardly be surprised that MPs have decided to vote on his de-gonging. The honours forfeiture committee has the final say, but a recommendation by MPs would carry weight. It would also be popular. And, yes, if Green intends to shirk responsibilities to BHS pensioners that he has acknowledged, an honour for “services to retail” would be a nonsense. But there are two reasons to hesitate at this time. First, are MPs sure the foot-dragging is all down to Green? The Pensions Regulator, with whom negotiations continue about a settlement, is not famed for being speedy. Second, if Green is de-gonged, he might descend into an even bigger sulk and persuade himself he has been wronged. Better to tell him how much he owes, and set a deadline for payment – then decide on the knighthood. 