Southern has promised to restore its full timetable from 31 October, after almost four months of running an emergency timetable with hundreds of trains cancelled every day. The move at the start of July had been billed as a short-term fix to the disruption affecting Southern, allowing a more predictable – if reduced – level of service for the hundreds of thousands of passengers travelling daily on its trains. Southern cut 341 trains a day, or about 15% of its services, in July, and more than 100 have yet to be reinstated.  Strikes, as well as levels of sickness that Southern and rail ministers have denounced as unofficial industrial action, have compounded staff shortages and other problems on the troubled Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR) franchise. The company said it was now able to restore the services by getting more employees back to work as well as appointing more staff as onboard supervisors, the planned replacement for conductors.  About 100 revenue protection staff have become onboard supervisors, freeing up more conductors to work on other routes. GTR said it has also recruited 270 additional drivers, with 262 more in training across the franchise.  Southern passengers in Hove, Bognor and Worthing will have services restored from Monday next week, while trains running between Brighton and Southampton, and between Hastings and Ashford, will complete the timetable restoration at the end of the month.  Charles Horton, the chief executive of GTR, Southern’s operating company, said: “This is what our passengers deserve and I thank them for their patience during what has been a difficult time for everyone.  “Clearly, the industrial relations issues we have are, regrettably, continuing, but we are pressing ahead with our plans and are committed to delivering a better service for everyone.” GTR said 33 Gatwick Express services would not return until 12 December, however, in order to manage the impact of leaves on the line, which frequently cause delays and congestion in the autumn.  The news came on the last day of a three-day strike by RMT conductors in the long-running dispute about changes to their role. The strike forced Southern to cut about two in five of its trains, although the company reported that an increasing number of conductors were defying the RMT leadership and returning to work.  The RMT said it would call off its next planned day of action, saying it had heeded a request from the Royal British Legion not to strike on a day in the run-up to Remembrance Day, when the charity does the bulk of its fundraising in London.  Walkouts planned for 4 and 5 November are due to go ahead, however, as will action on 22 and 23 November, and 6-8 December. Although Southern have been running services in the face of RMT action, further disruption could come after Aslef announced it was preparing to ballot drivers for action. 