All things considered, the government will be happy with how the labour market performed in the first three months after the EU referendum. Unemployment has continued to fall and at 4.8% of the workforce is at its lowest level for 11 years. Employment has continued to rise and there are plenty of jobs to be had. Ministers would not have expected anything better than that in the turbulent post-Brexit weeks and would have feared a much worse outcome. That said, the tone of next week’s autumn statement will be that big challenges for the economy remain, and there are hints of possible trouble ahead from the latest labour market data from the Office for National Statistics. One warning sign is the 49,000 increase in the number of economically inactive people – those who have dropped out of the workforce – in the latest quarter. Another is the rise of almost 10,000 in the claimant count measure of unemployment in October. The claimant count is by no means a perfect measure of joblessness since it only picks up those who are unemployed and eligible for certain state benefits. That’s why more attention is normally paid to the labour force survey measure, based on an internationally agreed methodology, and considered to be a more reliable yardstick. But the claimant count is a more timely measure and it does come into its own when there are turning points in the labour market, picking up developments before the labour force survey. Some economists believe the economy has arrived – or will soon arrive – at one such turning point. The Bank of England certainly thinks so. It is forecasting the unemployment rate to rise to 5.5% by the middle of 2018 and remain at that level throughout 2019. There are reasons for believing that the current state of the labour market is as good as it gets for a while. Private investment is unlikely to be strong while the government negotiates Brexit, while consumer spending is going to be hit as the cost of living rate catches up with the rate of earnings growth. For the past few years, the unusually low annual inflation rate has meant solid real income rises. It might be wondered why the Bank is predicting a relatively small increase in unemployment, but that’s because policy will remain supportive of jobs. Interest rates will remain at rock bottom levels and there will be modest steps in the autumn statement to boost demand. 