Leading shares are losing ground following recent falls in the oil price, but building materials group CRH is bucking the trend. Its shares have climbed 2.5% to £25.33, the biggest riser in the FTSE 100, after it reported better than expected half year earnings of €1.12bn, double the figure this time last year and better than the company’s forecast of €1.1bn made last month. It saw a strong performance in the US, and also benefitted from last year’s acquisitions including assets bought from Lafarge Holcim. It announced an increased half year dividend - up 1.6% - for the first time since 2009. Chief executive Albert Manifold said: With continued positive momentum in the Americas and the modest impact of early-stage economic recovery in Europe, and assuming normal weather conditions for the remainder of the season, we expect further progress in the second half with full year reported EBITDA in excess of €3bn. However CRH said the impact of the Brexit vote remained unclear.crh Canaccord Genuity analyst Aynsley Lammin issued a buy note, saying: The group has delivered a strong set of results, as expected, with the first half benefiting from acquisitions, a particularly strong US and modestly better markets in Europe...These results are consistent with our investment thesis that the group would enjoy good underlying trading, benefit from the recent acquisitions and start to de-leverage relatively quickly. Shares have enjoyed a strong bounce recently and now trade on a fuller rating at around 9 times EBITDA for 2017, but we believe this is supported by today’s good results. Overall though the FTSE 100 has fallen 52.07 points to 6783.71, as investors remain cautious as central bankers gather in Jackson Hole in the US for their annual symposium, with all eyes on Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen and any comments she makes about US interest rates. Oil prices are flat after recent falls, with the market torn between hopes of a production agreement at next month’s OPEC meeting and data this week showing growing US crude stocks. So commodity companies are among the losers, with Glencore down another 4% to 176.75p following Wednesday’s fall in profits. A number of companies have gone ex-dividend including Dixons Carphone, down 12.7p at 374.3p, Hammerson, 17.5p lower at 573p, the London Stock Exchange, off 67p at £27.55 and Prudential, 31p lower at £13.49. But WPP continues to climb after this week’s figures, up 30p at £18.10. 