Leading shares are moving higher at the start of the new trading week, helped by positive Eurozone data, takeover speculation and a host of upgrades from analysts. Mining shares have been lifted by a positive note on the sector from Barclays, with Antofagasta adding 12.5p to 531p, BHP Billiton 23.5p better at 1244.5p and Rio Tinto rising 43p to 2711.5p. Barclays said: One month on from upgrading our European Mining industry view to Positive, we round up developments on the macro, commodity and equity-specific fronts. Macro data has generally been supportive. Earnings momentum continues to underpin equity outperformance, with upgrade pressure concentrated in the bulk commodities and diversified equities, where valuations remain compelling. We mark to market coking and thermal coal and manganese prices, driving earnings and price target upgrades.  Elsewhere easyJet has climbed 22p to 940.5p after UBS moved from neutral to buy: On the back of three profit warnings (since the end of June) we have seen the easyJet share price nearly halve since the start of the year. However, we upgrade the shares to Buy and highlight (1) Shares are pricing in material future value destruction – we don’t think this will be the case (2) The shares have materially de-rated and we think look attractive (3) Earnings forecast risk for 2017 in our view is now balanced, and (4) Post expansion capex the free cashflow and return on invested capital look attractive. Overall the FTSE 100 is 19.45 points better at 7039.92, albeit underperforming rival European markets after the positive eurozone purchasing managers reports. With AT&T agreeing to take over Time Warner for £70bn, media shares are in focus, and ITV has added 2.8p to 173.8p. Provident Financial is up 75p at £30.80 as Goldman Sachs raised its target price from £25.70 to £30. But Royal Bank of Scotland, which has paid a consortium £180m to back an aborted attempt to float 300 branches on the stock market, is down 3.5p at 186.5p as Investec moved from hold to sell. Analyst Ian Gordon said: The RBS share price is up 12% in 4 days. Although our underlying and/or near-term expectations are largely unchanged, we think that RBS now faces a potentially even less favourable environment for conduct resolution. In truth, our forecasts here remain substantially guesswork, (and therefore highly unsatisfactory), but in particular, we now assume that settlement of the GRG debacle [where the bank faces claims from small businesses] may have a material cost attached to it. We also fear further “fine inflation” in the US. Gordon added: There is little real visibility on the financial fall-out from GRG. Andrew Tyrie MP comments that “RBS have said that they will consider the question of redress after publication of the FCA’s report”. We think that both timing and amount remains highly uncertain, but we now model a £500m charge in the fourth quarter of 2016... We still do not know precisely what hedging RBS has in place for as yet unprovided, but “anticipated” conduct settlements, in particular in relation to the US Department of Justice. The view of Investec Economics is that “Hillary Clinton now looks a near shoo-in to beat Donald Trump”. We think this may prove detrimental to RBS’ negotiating position (and that of other banks under investigation). In aggregate, we raise our incremental conduct charge forecast through the third quarter of 2016 to the fourth quarter of 2018 to £6.4bn (from £4.8bn). InterContinental Hotels has fallen 18p to £31.42 as Kepler Cheuvreux moved from hold to reduce. Among the mid-caps Petra Diamonds has put on after a positive first quarter production update, but defence group Cobham has dropped 18% to 131p after it downgraded its profit forecast for the second time this year. But French Connection has jumped 16% to 38p following a report that it could be attracting overseas or private equity predators, with US firm Neuberger Berman and Rutland Partners mentioned. 