Last week’s labour force figures produced the best unemployment rate for three years but also a record level of underemployment. The two different measures – one good, one bad – highlights the changing working environment, and also explains why despite unemployment falling, the amount of slack in the employment sector means wages continue to grow slower than ever. It is certainly good that the unemployment rate in August fell to 5.6% in seasonally adjusted terms, and 5.7% in trend terms – both of which were the best for three years. All other things being equal (the favourite phrase of economists), a falling unemployment rate is always better than a rising one. But one problem with the latest figures is that the three-year-low rate occurred because since the start of the year a lower percentage of people have been in the labour market. The participation rate has fallen from 65.3% last November to 64.7% in August – a difference of around 100,000 people. As the unemployment rate is the percentage of unemployed within the labour force, this means that had the participation rate stayed steady, the unemployment rate would now be higher – around 6.3% in seasonally adjusted terms and 6.1% in trend terms. Now there is only so far you can go holding the participation rate steady, but it is undeniable that the current low unemployment rate is a function of both a lower participation rate and strong part-time employment growth. Since December, in trend terms, part-time employment has risen by 105,330 jobs, while full-time employment has fallen by 21,460 jobs: And with this rise in part-time work, not surprisingly has come an increase in underemployment. In August, the underemployment ratio – which measures the percentage of employed who wish to work more hours – reached a record 9.2%, while the underemployment rate – which measures the number of underemployed as a percentage of the labour force – also hit a record high of 8.6%. One of the odd things about underemployment is it wasn’t much of a thing until the 1990s recession, and even then only really became an issue anyone really cared about in the past 15-20 years. Until the start of the century there were always more unemployed than there were underemployed; now it is the opposite:  The reason for the increase has been the change in employment from full-time to part-time, and the increase in the number of women in employment. In 1986 for example, 93% of men were employed full-time, so it is little wonder back then only 2.5% of male workers wanted more hours. Now just 81% of men work full-time, and 7.5% of men are underemployed. Similarly, 30 years ago, only 48% of women were in the workforce, compared to 59% now. And not surprisingly given women are more likely to be in part-time work this has also seen an increase in the numbers of women willing to work more hours. And a big and often ignored change has been the level of youth in full-time work. In the 1980s, youth were as likely to work full-time as were adults, now there is a record low number of youth working full-time:  All these factors combined means that it is largely silly to compare underemployment levels further back than around 20 years. If we were to suggest underemployment was the best indicator of employment, you would be arguing that things are worse now than during the 1990 recession:  But that said, the current underemployment rate does suggest there is a lot of “slack” in the current employment market – and it is a slackness that has increased in the past 12 months. In May 2004, the unemployment rate was 5.6%, as it is now. The underemployment rate was 7.1%. For the next 10 years the two measures largely followed each other – as the unemployment rate went down or up, so too did the underemployment rate. But that changed mid-way through 2014. First, the underemployment rate began to rise much faster, and then when the unemployment rate began to fall, the underemployment rate oddly kept rising:  It means that now while the unemployment rate is where it was in May 2004, the underemployment rate is 1.5 percentage points higher than it was then. That is why the underutilisation rate (a combination of unemployment and underemployment) is also 1.5% points higher than it was in May 2004. And this is not just due to more youth working part-time, the underutilisation rate is higher for workers over 25 years of age as well:  That the underutilisation rate has fallen in the past year is certainly a good thing, but that we now have a greater proportion of the labour market either wanting to work more hours or are unemployed than we did during the height of the global financial crisis highlights the weakens of the labour market. It means that any wage growth is likely to be muted for some time, as should any extra need for employment occur due to improved economic conditions, the easiest step would be to allocate more hours for workers rather than try to employ new people. There is no reason to bemoan the fall in the unemployment rate, but the rise in underemployment is likely to be an ongoing issue. And should the two measures continue to diverge, it will only serve to underscore the weakness of the unemployment rate at measuring the health of the economy.   