Barratt Developments, one of Britain’s biggest housebuilders, is engulfed in a corruption scandal after one of its top executives was arrested on suspicion of bribery following an investigation into the awarding of contracts to suppliers. Alastair Baird, Barratt’s regional managing director for London, was arrested on Wednesday by the Metropolitan police after the housebuilder handed over the findings of an internal investigation. He has been suspended from his job at the FTSE 100 company following the arrest. A former Barratt London employee, who has not been named, has also been arrested. The Met confirmed it was investigating “a number of allegations of corruption concerning a public limited company” and that the allegations “related to irregularities in the tendering process”. The probe is being led by officers in the Met’s complex fraud team, which is part of its Falcon (fraud and linked crime online) division. The Met confirmed it had arrested a 52-year-old man at an address in south Wales on suspicion of bribery and taken him to a police station in the region. A 47-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of bribery in east London and taken to a local police station. The Met said that investigations were ongoing. In a stock market statement, Barratt said it had launched the investigation in August 2015 after an internal audit found “possible misconduct in the process for awarding and managing certain material and subcontract supply contracts in the London region”. The findings of the investigation were handed to police in April. Barratt said its internal investigation had led to civil legal action against an employee who was dismissed in February, although it did not confirm if this was the same individual who was arrested. Baird has worked for Barratt for 29 years and led the London business, which accounts for more than one in 10 homes built by the company, for the last five years. Barratt’s website describes Baird as a “dynamic leader with a reputation for delivering successful high-value, complex and award-winning urban regeneration scheme”. It adds: “He is renowned for his superb relationships with key public and private sector stakeholders and his outstanding grasp of the construction and financial issues that underpin successful development.” The chief executive of Barratt, David Thomas, said the housebuilder had “acted decisively”. He said: “We are committed to meeting the highest ethical standards in all aspects of our business. We have acted decisively, launching our own thorough and comprehensive investigation and referring the matter to the Metropolitan police.” Since the internal inquiry, Barratt said it had appointed an accountancy firm to review its tendering and procurement processes in London. It has now adopted “additional controls”. The company said its London business had a different procurement process from the rest of the company because of the “non-standard and one-off nature of London construction projects”. Barratt said Gary Ennis, the head of its southern division, would take control of its London business on a temporary basis. Thomas added: “I am confident that Gary Ennis and the London board will ensure that Barratt London continues to deliver successfully, and remains a trusted, valued partner to its stakeholders. We will continue to co-operate fully with the Metropolitan police and to conduct our own investigation into these matters. We will take whatever action is required to ensure our values and standards are upheld.” Barratt London employs more than 650 people and, according to the company’s website, in the last three years Baird has acquired land to build more than 6,000 homes and which has gross development value – the potential value of the property after development – of £3.5bn. Barratt said it did not expect the investigation to have a “material adverse financial effect”. Shares in the company rose 2% on Wednesday. 