British American Tobacco has offered to pay $47bn (£38bn) for full control of Reynolds American in a takeover that would create the world’s biggest tobacco company. The cash-plus-shares deal would plunge BAT back into the US market after a 12-year absence and is also expected to speed the development of e-cigarettes and vapes. BAT, whose brands include Lucky Strike and Benson & Hedges, already owns 42.2% of Reynolds and is offering to buy the remainder of the firm, which traces its roots back to before the American war of independence. The British firm has owned a stake in Reynolds since 2004, when it merged its US subsidiary Brown & Williamson with RJ Reynolds Tobacco to create Reynolds American. “From the moment Reynolds American was born, this was always the most likely outcome,” said Cenkos Securities analyst Rae Maile. “The US marketplace is fundamentally very attractive and offers a source of sustainable profit growth.” BAT said it was prepared to pay $56.50 a share, comprising $24.13 in cash and $32.37 in shares. The offer, structured as a merger, is worth 20% more than Reynolds’ closing price on Thursday and values the US company at £66bn. The combined firm would be valued at about £157bn. BAT’s shares, the biggest gainers in the FTSE 100 index this year, initially rose before closing down nearly 3% at £46.66, despite a strong trading update for the first nine months. Revenues were up 8.1% stripping out exchange-rate movements, while it sold 497bn cigarettes, 2.2% more than last year. Speculation has been rife for months that BAT might decide to buy out Reynolds as tobacco companies jockey for position. BAT said that buying the number two US tobacco company, after Philip Morris, would give it a leading position in the American market, the world’s second biggest after China.  Reynolds has a 35% market share in the US, where it owns the low-cost market leader Pall Mall, Newport, the top-selling menthol cigarette, and Camel, a mid-market brand popular with younger Americans. BAT could produce its own brands in the US via Reynolds’ factory in Tobaccoville, North Carolina. While smoking rates in the US are declining, analysts said it remains a market with huge growth potential. Population growth means that while smoking rates are falling, the number of smokers has remained relatively constant at about 45 million people for several decades. US cigarettes are also relatively cheap compared with prices in the UK, leaving scope for the company to boost profits by raising prices. A tie-up would also allow BAT and Reynolds to build on their existing technology-sharing partnership in e-cigarettes and vapes. The nascent market for what Reynolds calls “cigalike products” has no dominant player, but BAT would be able to combine its Vype brand with the US firm’s Vuse products. BAT said it expected cost savings of $400m, a relatively low figure for such a large merger because its lack of presence in the US means there is limited overlap in their businesses. Nicandro Durante, BAT’s chief executive, said: “The proposed merger of our two great companies is the logical progression in our relationship and offers all shareholders a stake in a stronger, truly global tobacco and next-generation products company.” BAT said Reynolds shareholders would gain from the deal by holding shares in a bigger company with the clout to sell Reynolds’ brands round the world. Guy Ellison, the head of UK equities at Investec Wealth & Investment, said that while the timing of the move was a surprise, the strategic rationale made “perfect sense, pivoting BAT further towards the high-value US market, consolidating some strong brands and Reynolds’ position in next-generation tobacco”. 