Small and medium-sized building firms are struggling to find land where they can build homes, research showed on Tuesday, with a lack of available sites preventing the creation of much-needed new homes in England. For the second year running, the Federation of Master Builders (FMB) found that the lack of available and viable land was the biggest barrier to building for SMEs in the industry, with two-thirds citing it as a problem. In the 1980s, around two-thirds of new homes were built by small firms, but their contribution has now dropped to around a quarter, with the financial crisis speeding up the decline.  The federation said its annual survey showed land availability was the biggest constraint on supply, followed by lack of finance and then planning permission. The percentage of respondents citing a shortage of skilled workers as a major barrier to growth was up sharply, rising to 39% from 27% in 2015.  The organisation said that local authorities were focusing too much on large developments when drawing up their local plans, rather than including provisions for smaller building firms. The small sites that developers were able to identify were often harder to get through the planning process, it said, and without large in-house teams to help, builders struggled. Brian Berry, the chief executive of the FMB, said: “Councils need to find a way of allocating and granting planning permission for more small sites. The current focus on large sites is squeezing out smaller developers, which is reducing competition in the housing market at a time when we need more, not less, choice.  “The limited supply of opportunities for small-scale development is one of a number of key structural constraints that has seen the number of homes built by SMEs decline from around two-thirds in the late 1980s to less than a quarter today.” Berry said it was “absurd” that the planning system treated a 300-home application in largely the same way it treated a three-home application.  He added: “SME house builders must be seen as a key component of the government’s housing strategy. This means a renewed focus on granting planning permission to small sites. At the same time, the government needs to press ahead with its proposed planning reforms, including a presumption in favour of small-scale development.” The FMB said the 108 firms responding to its survey had reported that demand from buyers had weakened over the past year, but that they expected it to pick up again over the next 12 months. On Monday, the Home Builders Federation said official figures for the number of new homes were undercounting by around 30,000 a year.  Its Ghost Towns report said the government’s quarterly and annual housebuilding statistics reports missed out an average of 153 homes completed in 75% of local authorities. It said the annual net supply of housing data, which was only published once a year, was drawn from more reliable sources and showed a 20% increase in new homes in 2014-15. 