Was it the feelgood factor from the Rio Olympics? Or the arrival of some decent weather at last? Was it the abundance of bargains on offer? Or foreign tourists arriving in Britain to pick up cut-price luxury goods courtesy of the cheaper pound post-Brexit? Whatever it was – and it was probably a combination of all those factors – August was a hot month for the retail trade. Forget the official figures showing a small 0.2% fall in the volume of sales last month: this followed a 1.9% jump in July, which was even stronger than originally estimated. The underlying picture, reflected in the 1.6% increase in retail sales volumes over the three months to August, is one of strong consumer confidence. This is perhaps not entirely surprising. Interest rates had been kept at 0.5% for more than seven years before the Bank of England cut them to a new record low of 0.25% last month. That provided those on variable rate mortgages with a bit of extra spending power. All the other factors that normally lead to more high street spending are also in place. Unemployment is low, house prices are going up and wages are rising more rapidly than prices. The ferocious competition that is affecting the profits of the John Lewis Partnership is good news for consumers. Those looking for a Brexit effect in the Office for National Statistics data would struggle to find one. The 52% of Britons who voted to leave the EU appear to have gone on a celebratory binge, while the 48% who voted to remain seem to be getting over the referendum blues with a bit of retail therapy. With retail sales growing at an annual rate of more than 6%, the ONS’s comment that there did not appear to have been any major fall in consumer confidence since 23 June is self-evident. Given the strength of spending, critics of the Bank of England will question Threadneedle Street’s decision to cut the cost of borrowing last month. The Bank would argue that its package of measures helped to lift spirits when they were particularly low, although the big jump in retail sales over the summer came in July, before its monetary policy committee intervened. One thing is pretty clear, though. For the time being, the strength of consumer spending has rendered any further action by the Bank unnecessary. 