Royal Bank of Scotland did not tip healthy small businesses into default and did not seek to profit from their collapse. Nor did it request personal injections of cash from owners when it had already decided a business was doomed, says the Financial Conduct Authority. But it did sometimes charge fees it didn’t explain properly, and there was a failure to support small businesses “in a manner consistent with good turnaround practice”. Thus the bank will pay compensation to address “poor outcomes” at a cost of about £400m. Is everybody happy now? Of course not. The period under the microscope is 2008-13, so the process of inspection has been painfully slow. The perception also remains that an apology, not to mention a few quid in redress, has had to be dragged out of RBS. The RBS chief executive, Ross McEwan, said on Tuesday the bank had “acknowledged mistakes for some time”, but the latest admission of shortcomings was fuller and franker than any heard previously. Indeed, back in 2014, when an internally commissioned report by the law firm Clifford Chance found no evidence that RBS set out to defraud its small business customers, the bank’s tone verged on jubilant. Tuesday’s response was necessarily humbler. RBS is still innocent on the explosive central charge of wrecking healthy businesses but the FCA’s qualification was significant. Of the potentially viable business customers transferred into the controversial unit called the global restructuring group (GRG), “most of them experienced some form of inappropriate action by RBS”, said the regulator. Not pretty. Incompetence at RBS – if that’s what the regulator has decided – would be understandable. In 2008, the bank was bust and new management, after the state-funded bailout, was fighting fires on many fronts. It would not be a surprise if overwhelmed staff at GRG, facing a steep rise in defaults, took insufficient care with small businesses. Yet the process of ensuring redress has been uncertain and plodding. An adviser to Sir Vince Cable, when business secretary in the coalition government, first made allegations of shabby behaviour in 2013. The subsequent FCA inquiry has run a year behind schedule (and still hasn’t been published in full). Now fees charged as long ago as 2008 will be returned in 2017 and complainants who still feel aggrieved can make their pleas to a retired high court judge, Sir William Blackburne. A just outcome, even when it arrives late, is better than an unjust one. But one sympathises with the small businesses. They should not have had to shout so loudly, or for so long, to be heard. The system has served them poorly. When he announced his first strategic update in May, Marks & Spencer’s new chief executive, Steve Rowe, knocked 10% off the share price. After his second on Tuesday, which sought to answer the questions he raised in the spring, the fall was 5%. One can understand why investors are worried. Over the course of two outings in the City, Rowe has made a strong case that M&S is in need of radical overhaul. But it’s hard to conclude that his plan for action is as bold as his words. Shutting 53 wholly owned foreign stores sounds dramatic, of course. But the combined losses in the 10 affected countries were £45m on turnover of £171m last year. If you are losing £1 for every £4 of revenue and see few opportunities for expansion, retreat is merely an act of common sense, even when the Champs Élysées store in Paris was a pet project of your predecessor. Concentrating on franchise stores, where most of the risks sit with a franchisee with local knowledge, is more logical. The charge of timidity really concerns the UK. M&S says 10% of floorspace devoted to clothing and homewares will close. Is that really enough? The clothing market is shifting online at pace and M&S is seeking smaller (but sharper) ranges. A 10% slimming might be considered fearless if it were happening overnight but this is a five-year overhaul costing £350m, half of it in cash. Come 2021, it may be time to do it all over again. The supposed compensations for investors are twofold: M&S is still generating plenty of cash and sees 200 pockets of the country that are deprived of the delights of Simply Food. The former is definitely a blessing, but less of the cash may find its way to investors: in the second-half of the financial year, shareholders will get an ordinary dividend but not a special on top. As for 200 more Simply Foods, the format is a proven winner but a 0.9% decline in like-for-like sales in the first half may be the first hint top-of-the-range food is becoming harder to shift. All in all, it’s hard to find reasons to be cheerful. Underlying profits fell 18.6% to £231m in the first half and the next five years for M&S look like hard graft for uncertain reward. 