Britain’s public finances improved in October with a fall in the monthly deficit to £4.8bn from £6.4bn in the same month last year, giving the chancellor a lift ahead of Wednesday’s autumn statement. Healthy increases in national insurance contributions, corporation tax and stamp duty on shares helped boost government coffers and put Philip Hammond in a better position to ease austerity. But the damage to growth following the Brexit vote is still expected to force the Treasury to miss its target of £55.5bn by the year end by about £10bn. Since the financial year started in April public sector net borrowing excluding public sector banks was already £48.6bn. This was only 10.3% down on the year before against Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) forecasts of a fall of about a quarter. Scott Bowman, UK economist at Capital Economics, said: “While Hammond would have welcomed this morning’s improvement in the public finances, it is unlikely to be a sign of things to come in tomorrow’s autumn statement. “The borrowing overshoot, along with weaker forecasts for GDP growth ahead, should prevent the chancellor from being too bold tomorrow. Indeed, we think that the OBR will present Mr Hammond with forecasts for borrowing that are about £35bn higher in 2019-20 than the previous forecast,” he said. Central government receipts were up 6.8% year-on-year in October 2016, lifted by a 23.6% year-on-year gain in corporation tax receipts and 6.4% jump in national insurance contributions, offset by a 2.4% dip in income tax receipts, with the government’s raising of the personal threshold having a bigger than expected impact on income. Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, said the chancellor needed to factor into the public finances higher interest payments on government debts and higher inflation costs. “And, of course, markedly slowing growth over the coming months will take a toll on tax receipts – although this is likely to show up more after the current fiscal year.” The Treasury said: “As the chancellor has made clear, the government is committed to fiscal discipline and will return the budget to balance over a sensible period of time, in a way that allows space to support the economy as needed.”  