Tesco workers are taking legal action against their employer on grounds of age and gender discrimination after the supermarket cut its pay rates for night and weekend shifts. A group of 17 long-serving employees, who joined Tesco before 1999, are fighting the cut in wages introduced in July this year. Lawyers believe up to 38,000 staff who are paid by the hour could be affected. Tesco announced the changes in February and they had been agreed in consultation with the shopworkers’ trade union, Usdaw, and staff representatives. The company said an accompanying 3.1% pay rise to £7.62 per hour made it one of the highest payers in the retail industry. But staff who used to receive double time for Sunday or bank holiday shifts saw their pay slashed to time and a half. Leigh Day, the legal firm acting for the claimants, has written to Tesco asking them how many of Tesco’s staff who are paid by the hour – who are mostly over 40 years old – are affected. All staff taken on before 5 July 1999 have seen their benefits reduced. Paula Lee, of Leigh Day’s employment and discrimination department, said: “The decision to impose pay cuts on long-serving employees is a bitter pill for our clients to swallow and we believe it is discriminatory. There seems to be a growing trend amongst retailers to cut staff wages and use those savings across other areas of the business. “It is the longer-serving staff in these retail organisations who usually suffer. Understandably our clients feel their loyalty is being taken advantage of; that the employer knows they are unlikely to leave their jobs and, in turn, that makes them feel vulnerable to further ‘no choice’ pay cuts.” A spokesperson for Tesco said: “Earlier this year we announced a pay increase of up to 3.1% for colleagues working in our stores across the UK, in addition to a 5% turnaround bonus. As part of the pay negotiations we also agreed to simplify premium payments to ensure a fair and consistent approach for all colleagues. The minority of colleagues who were negatively impacted by this change were supported with an agreed lump sum transition payment.” The transition payment was equivalent to the loss in pay over the next 18 months. Tesco did not confirm how many workers were affected but said it was a small number.  A similar dispute is simmering at Marks & Spencer, which reduced the earnings of about 10% of its shop-floor workers by cutting premium payments for those working antisocial hours in July. Leigh Day said it is also representing thousands of employees in discrimination claims against Asda and Sainsbury’s. 