Marks & Spencer has confirmed that Laura Wade-Gery, one of the UK’s few female FTSE 100 board directors, will not be returning from maternity leave and is to exit the company at the end of September. Wade-Gery, multichannel director of UK retail and online operations, will receive a payoff worth up to £2.4m in cash and shares, although only about £560,000 of that is guaranteed and the rest dependent on the performance of M&S over the next few years. She will receive only eight months’ of her £569,000 salary in monthly instalments. The departure of Wade-Gery, 51, a former Tesco director who was once tipped as M&S’s next chief executive, comes after she completed a year off at the beginning of this month.  Her exit marks the loss of one of the UK’s few female FTSE 100 board directors and comes as efforts to appoint more women to senior positions at Britain’s biggest companies have stalled. Fewer than 10% of the three most senior positions at FTSE 100 firms are held by women according to a report published in July. While there is no suggestion that Wade-Gery faced discrimination, the exit of such a high-profile woman at the end of her maternity leave is also likely to highlight the challenges new mothers face on return to work. A report by MPs published last month found 77% of pregnant women and new mothers experience discrimination at work, compared with 45% 10 years ago. Less than a quarter of FTSE 100 boardroom recruits in the six months to March 2016 were women, the lowest level since 2011, according to the Female FTSE Board Report. Wade-Gery is not thought to have been close to M&S’s new chief executive Steve Rowe and in her absence her responsibilities have were shared out among other directors. She said: “I have had five very happy years at M&S. I’ve been away from the business for a year now, and that time has seen some significant changes in both my personal life and in the business. I concluded that the time was right to move on from M&S. I wish Steve and all my colleagues and friends every success.” Wade-Gery will step down from M&S’s board with immediate effect and formally leave the company at the end of September.  Robert Swannell, chair of M&S, said: “On behalf of the board, I would like to thank Laura very much for the significant contribution she has made in her five years at M&S. Laura has been a valued member of the Board and instrumental in the improvement and modernisation of our e-commerce and multi-channel capabilities. We wish her all the very best for the future.” Wade-Gery’s exit comes as Rowe tries to slim down M&S’s head office operations and cut costs as he battles to turn things around after the retailer’s biggest fall in clothing sales since the 2008 banking crisis. Last week Rowe confirmed plans to cut 525 jobs from M&S’s London head office and move another 400 roles outside the capital as part of a £15m shakeup. The retailer is consulting with head office staff including those in buying, merchandising and marketing about the job cuts, which are part o Rowe’s attempts to reduce costs and simplify the business. The net reduction in staff numbers, which first emerged over the weekend, will be achieved through a combination of redundancies, non-replacement of leavers and cutting contractors. On top of the job cuts, 400 IT and logistics staff will move from central London to M&S’s IT centre in Stockley Park, Middlesex, and its distribution hub in Hemel Hempstead, potentially enabling the company to move out of one of its two head office buildings near Paddington. M&S has said it remains committed to investing more in improving the experience in stores for customers there will not be no cuts in shop-floor staff. But the new chief executive, who took the top job after nearly 30 years at M&S, has already faced criticism over changes to pay and pensions for shop workers including cutting premium pay for Sundays. After more than 90,000 people signed a petition calling on the chain to scrap the changes M&S agreed that staff would receive extra compensation to ensure their pay did not fall below current levels in future. 