Maribel Martínez received a terrifying surprise two weeks ago when she went to collect her five-year-old son from John F Kennedy airport in New York: JetBlue presented her with the wrong child. Instead of greeting Andy Martínez Mercado, who was set to arrive from the Dominican Republic on the morning of 17 August, a JetBlue employee brought Martínez another boy – a stranger – who was carrying her son’s passport. “I was freaking out,” Martínez told the New York Daily News, which first reported on the switch. “I didn’t know if he was alive. I still haven’t stopped crying.”  Two young boys each boarded the wrong plane in the Dominican Republic. As a result, Andy Martínez arrived in Boston while the other boy arrived in New York and was presented to Andy’s mom. According to Martínez, once the airline tracked down her son in Boston, he told her on the phone: “Mami, they put me on another plane.” According to the airline, both boys were reunited with their families that day.  JetBlue charges a $100 unaccompanied minor fee for all children between the ages of five and 14 who are flying alone. “Two unaccompanied children of the same age traveling separately from Santiago, Dominican Republic, one to New York JFK and one to Boston – each boarded a flight to the incorrect destination,” a JetBlue spokeswoman said in a statement on Wednesday. “Upon learning of the error, our teams in JFK and Boston immediately took steps to assist the children in reaching their correct destinations. While the children were always under the care and supervision of JetBlue crew members, we realize this situation was distressing for their families.” Martínez said the family will never use JetBlue again, despite the $475 refund and $2,100 in credit that the family received to make up for the ordeal. The family plans to sue JetBlue for their negligence and has retained Sanford Rubenstein as their lawyer, according to the Daily News. “Any parent can understand the terrifying fear a mother goes through knowing that her child is missing,” Rubenstein said. “This never should have happened and the JetBlue employees should be ashamed of themselves.” This is not the first time that an airline misplaced an unaccompanied minor.  In one weekend in 2009 Continental airlines put two unaccompanied minors on the wrong flights. One eight-year-old was sent from Houston to Fayetteville, Arkansas, instead of Charlotte, North Carolina, where her father was waiting for her. And a 10-year-old flew from Boston to Newark, New Jersey, instead of Cleveland where she was supposed to be visiting her grandparents. “I just feel it was total incompetence and a lack of caring,” Wendy Babineaux, one of the children’s mothers, said at the time. “That they did this with my child and turned around the next day and did it with another child shows they do have major problems.” The airline, which has since been acquired by United, said both incidents occurred when two different flights were boarding from the same gate.  