Morrisons has extended its relationship with Amazon, enabling customers to order their weekly grocery shop for delivery within an hour in London and Hertfordshire. The announcement of the new service for Amazon’s Prime Now members sent shares in Ocado, the online grocery specialist which supports Morrisons’ website, down by 8.5% at the end of the day. Morrisons began supplying goods from its central warehouse to Amazon in June and already offers thousands of products via the US company’s Fresh grocery delivery service, which currently only operates in London.  Under the Prime Now service, which will be called Morrisons at Amazon, orders will be picked at a local Morrisons store by the supermarket’s staff then collected and delivered by Amazon either within one hour for £6.99 or in a two-hour slot for free in selected areas of London and Hertfordshire. Mariangela Marseglia, the director of Prime Now EU, said the deal would add 10,000 items to its ultra-fast delivery service. David Potts, the chief executive of Morrisons, said: “As foodmaker and shopkeeper, we have unique skills to help build a broader new Morrisons through capital-light growth. Morrisons at Amazon is another exciting joint opportunity and makes Morrisons’ good quality, great value-for-money products available to even more customers.” He said the Amazon deal would contribute towards Morrisons’ target of generating £50m to £100m in additional profits from online, wholesaling, manufacturing and services. Morrisons shares closed down 1.5% on Wednesday, but improved trading since the arrival of Potts in March last year and canny wholesale deals with Amazon and petrol forecourts operator Motor Fuel Group have helped drive a 50% rise in the supermarket’s share price this year. Earlier this month, the Bradford-based chain reported a 1.6% rise in sales, excluding fuel, at established stores for the 13 weeks to 30 October – well ahead of bigger rivals Sainsbury’s and Asda. Ocado has handled the distribution network and IT behind Morrison’s website since it launched in 2014. It delivers in north London and most of the rest of England but not East Anglia, the north-east or Scotland.  This year the two companies agreed to jointly develop a new distribution centre in Erith, south London, and a new IT system to allow the supermarket to serve online shoppers from its stores. Both arrangements are intended to help Morrisons extend its delivery network as it tries to tap into the fast growing online market as shoppers switch away from traditional supermarkets. But the new Ocado warehouse will not open until 2018 and the store-picking system will not start being tested until next year. The agreement with Amazon gives Morrisons a headstart on delivering groceries from its stores, potentially boosting sales. While only available in limited locations initially, Amazon has a history of rolling out successful services relatively quickly. Prime Now launched in London in June 2015 and is now available Surrey, Birmingham, Newcastle, Manchester, Leeds, Liverpool, Portsmouth, South Yorkshire and Glasgow as well as parts of London and Hertfordshire. Bruno Monteyne, an analyst at Bernstein Research, said: “It’s unclear at this stage what the deal means for the prospect of in-store picking with Ocado, but it will certainly give Morrisons much better negotiation power in the discussions. It should also improve the bargaining position for any other retailer looking to sign a deal with Ocado.” Ocado said it was making good progress with developing its new distribution centre in Erith and store pick model for Morrisons. “Although we are not aware of the details, we have been assured by Morrisons that they acknowledge and respect the exclusivity provisions in our agreement, which oblige Morrisons to operate their online grocery business only through the Ocado arrangements,” a spokesperson for Ocado said. Clive Black, at Morrisons’ broker Shore Capital, said: “We believe this announcement suggests that Morrisons’ initial experiences with Amazon (and vice versa) have been encouraging, whilst the store-based retailer’s broader ambitions and capabilities online appear to be extending … If successful, it could also catapult Morrison’s access to the convenience market where it has no physical presence.”  However, Monteyne said Morrisons would only be supplying Amazon via an extension of its wholesale agreement so the US company would be able to set prices. “Without being able to control pricing this puts a material risk on the Morrisons brand and the risk of Amazon undercutting Morrisons’ offer,” he said. Morrisons’ tie-up with Amazon brings it up to speed with the trend towards ever faster online grocery deliveries. Amazon kicked off the race last year when it launched Prime Now, a one-hour delivery service for frozen and chilled foods. Morrisons has now tapped into that service. Sainsbury’s is the only other major grocery retailer to offer one-hour delivery. The London-based chain has developed an app called Chop Chop, through which shoppers can order up to 20 items to be delivered by bicycle.  Ocado offers same-day delivery if time slots are available, while Tesco is testing same-day deliveries. Asda offers a same-day “click and collect” service, but its fastest delivery arrives the day after ordering.  